



                               COLOURED

                              ENGRAVINGS

                                  OF

                                HEATHS.




                          Coloured Engravings

                                  OF

                                HEATHS.

                                  THE

                               DRAWINGS

                              TAKEN FROM

                          LIVING PLANTS ONLY.

                                 WITH

  THE APPROPRIATE SPECIFIC CHARACTER, FULL DESCRIPTION, NATIVE PLACE
               OF GROWTH, AND TIME OF FLOWERING OF EACH;

                         In Latin and English.

    EACH FIGURE ACCOMPANIED BY ACCURATE DISSECTIONS OF THE SEVERAL
          PARTS, (MAGNIFIED WHERE NECESSARY,) UPON WHICH THE
                SPECIFIC DISTINCTION HAS BEEN FOUNDED,

                           ACCORDING TO THE

                            LINNÆAN SYSTEM.


                          THE WHOLE EXECUTED

                         _By H. C. ANDREWS_,

                   BOTANICAL PAINTER, ENGRAVER, &C.


                                VOL. I.


                                LONDON:

            PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHOR, NO. 5, KNIGHTSBRIDGE.

        _Printed by T. Bensley, Bolt Court, Fleet Street._

                                 1802.




ADDRESS.


In his endeavours to illustrate this brilliant and extended tribe of
plants, the author thinks it necessary to premise, by way of deprecating
the opinion of the Public on this part of his labours; that, as all his
drawings are taken from cultivated plants, some of them may thence
appear less picturesque, than if he indulged his fancy in their design;
or more fortunately, have enjoyed the opportunity of copying them on the
soil where nature has placed them indigenous: But, as the latter never
was within his power; he would rather stand convicted of apparent want
of taste, in the execution of a work where ornament should give way to
science, than be taxed with having varied from a just representation of
the plant, as it must meet the eye of the British Botanist. Numerous and
beautiful as are the specimens of this Genus, in the splendid herbariums
of Sir J. Banks, Bart. P. R. S. &c.; G. Hibbert, Esq.; A. B. Lambert,
Esq. &c. &c.; yet, as the dried plant exhibits so very different an
appearance, from the living one, in every character necessary for a
perfect drawing, but particularly in the blossoms; no advantage can be
taken, to ornament, or add to, the present undertaking, from them;
unless, by comparison, to determine some species, which have been
described by those Botanists who have named them at the Cape of Good
Hope. Since, therefore, the original intent of this work, was, (and in
its progress we have found no reason to alter the plan,) to give figures
of those species of Heaths, only, which are actually cultivated in the
different collections of this country: so, whatever may be imputed to
want of freedom in the pencil of the artist, it is hoped, will be
covered by this reflection; that he has invariably copied nature, though
in a formal dress, without assuming the general licence of the painter.
In pursuing the Botanical part of the work, he has endeavoured to give
the specific names which are in general use in Britain, where the plant
is commonly known in our gardens, in preference to any, published by
either foreign or English Botanists which have not that character. Where
the plant is new with us, but has a published, and received name among
Botanists, he has invariably adopted it; but where none could be traced,
to the best of his judgment, he has given it, then only, an appropriate
title. A few alterations from the original plan, arising from the
inundation of new species since the commencement of the work, it will be
necessary briefly to state. He had at first arranged the whole of the
Genus, then known, from the method given by Linnæus, under two general
heads, Bearded and Beardless tips; but, from the numbers now in our
possession, which cannot, with any propriety, be placed under either
head, he has been induced to alter it; and has formed them, under five
of the most ostensible, and general characters of the same parts. Thus,
1st, bearded, where the tips are simple, and awned at the base; 2d,
crested when the tips are terminated by a curved like feather; 3d,
two-horned, when the termination of the tip is thrown inward, and the
parts quite smooth; 4th, beardless, where no protuberant part is seen,
the tips of an oblong-form, and fixed by their backs to the threads;
5th, pencilled, where no apparent division, but from colour, is
perceiveable in the Chives, which protrude considerably beyond the
blossom. For the accommodation of those who wish to know what Synonims
are attached to our figures, a statement is given, of those most worthy
notice; under the names of the various authors from whence they are
collated. These we have confined to six of the most modern; from whose
works, if farther research may be thought necessary, a longer list may
be obtained. As it is but bare justice to make acknowledgment for
favours received; what remains for the author is to mention with
gratitude, at least, the persons, from whose kind indulgence in the free
use of their collections, he has chiefly drawn his resources.

G. HIBBERT, Esq. Clapham Common, Surrey.
The Honourable Marquis of BLANDFORD, White Knights, Berkshire.
Messrs. LEE and KENNEDY, Nurserymen, Hammersmith, Middlesex.
The late Lady ARCHER, Ham Common, Surrey.
The Honourable WILLIAM HENRY IRBY, Farnham Royal, Berks.
The late J. ROBERTSON, Stockwell, Surrey.
J. VERE, Esq. Kensington Gore, Middlesex.




ERICA.

CLASSIS VIII. ORDO I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._


CHARACTER GENERICUS.

CALYX. _Perianthium_ tetraphyllum; _foliolis_ ovato-oblongis,
persistentibus.

COROLLA monopetala, campanulata, quadrifida, sæpé ventricosa.

STAMINA. _Filamenta_ octo, capillaria, receptaculo inserta. _Antheræ_
apice bifidæ.

PISTILLUM. _Germen_ subrotundum, superum. _Stylus_ filiformis, erectus,
staminibus longior. _Stigma_ coronulatum, tetragonum, quadrifidum.

PERICARPIUM. _Capsula_ subrotunda, calyce minor, tecta, quadrilocularis,
quadrivalvis; _dissepimentis_ cum futuris coeuntibus.

SEMINA numerosa, minima.

Obs. _Dantur species calyee duplice._

     Figura Corollæ _ex ovata, tubulosa, ventricosa, et oblonga, in
     diversis varia est_.

     Antheræ _in aliis emarginatæ, in aliis bicornutæ, cristatæ,
     aristatæ, muticæ, vel penicillatæ; inclusa vel exsertæ_.


ESSENTIALIS CHARACTER.

_Calyx_ tetraphyllus. _Corolla_ quadrifida.

_Filamenta_ receptaculo inserta.

_Antheræ_ bifidæ. _Capsula_ quadri-locularis. _Dissepimenta_ valvularum
margine.




HEATH.

CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

Eight Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

EMPALEMENT. _Cup_ four-leaved; _leaflets_ between egg-shaped and oblong,
remaining.

BLOSSOM one petal, bell-shaped, four-cleft, often bellied.

CHIVES. _Threads_ eight, hair-like, inserted into the receptacle. _Tips_
two-cleft at the end.

POINTAL. _Seed-bud_ roundish, above. _Shaft_ thread-shaped, upright,
longer than the chives. _Summit_ crowned, four-cornered, four-cleft.

SEED-VESSEL. _Capsule_ roundish, less than the cup, covered,
four-celled, four-valved; _partitions_ meeting with the sutures.

SEEDS numerous, very small.

Obs. _There are some species with a double cup._

     The figure of the blossom _as to egg-shape, tubular, bellied and
     oblong, differs in different species_.

     The Tips _in some are notched at the end, in others two-horned,
     crested, bearded, beardless, or pencilled; within the blossom, or
     without_.


ESSENTIAL CHARACTER.

_Cup_ four-leaved. _Blossom_ four-cleft.

_Threads_ inserted into the receptacle.

_Tips_ two-cleft. _Capsule_ four-celled. _Partitions_ from the edge of
the valves.




ERICA aitonia.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris basis bicornibus, inclusis; corollis longissimis,
viscosis, sulcatis, sesquipollicaribus, laciniis maximis, cordatis;
foliis ternis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS, rami, ramulique filiformes, flexibiles; rami simplices, longi.

FOLIA terna, apice patentia, serrata, acuminata, crassa, subtus sulcata.

FLORES terminales, umbellati, terni, erecti, pedunculi longissimi,
purpurei, bracteis tribus, coloratis, instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis spathulatis, crassis,
viscosis, apicibus obtusis, extra concavis.

COROLLA sesquipollicaris, sulcata, linearia, summa inflata, ore arctata;
laciniis cordatis, maximis, expansis; extra dilute carnea, intus albida.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, torta; antheræ basi bicornes, apice
cornutæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum, sulcatum; stylus rectus, filiformis
exsertus, purpureus; stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Julii, in Octobrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, whose tips have two horns at their base, and within the blossoms,
which are extremely long, clammy, furrowed, of an inch and a half in
length, the segments large, and heart-shaped; the leaves grow by fours.


DESCRIPTION.

The STEM, as well as the larger and smaller branches, are thread-shaped,
and supple; the branches are simple, and long.

The LEAVES grow by threes, spreading out at the end, sawed,
sharp-pointed, thick and furrowed underneath.

The FLOWERS grow at the summit of the branches, three in a bunch, and
upright; the foot-stalks are very long, and purple, having three
coloured floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are spathula-shaped, thick, clammy,
blunt at their ends, and hollow, without.

The BLOSSOM is an inch and a half long, channelled, and linear, swelled
at the end, and narrowed at the mouth; the segments of the border are
very large, and expanded; of a light flesh colour on the outside, white
within.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads twirled; tips two horned at their base,
the points horned, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel oblong, and furrowed; the shaft straight,
thread-shaped, purple, and without the blossom; summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from July, till October.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and its Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA albens.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; corollis ventricosis, axillaribus,
solitariis, sub-albidis; foliis ternis, trigonis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, pedalis, erectus, ramosus, gracilis; rami simplices.

FOLIA terna, trigona, linearia, acuta, glabra, subtus tenuissime
sulcata, erecta; petiolis adpressis.

FLORES in axillis foliorum solitarii, cernui, sub-albicantes; pedunculis
curvatis, albidis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis coloratis, acuminatis,
adpressis.

COBOLLA ventricosa, ore arctata; limbo quadrilobo, laciniis æqualibus,
acuminatis, revolutis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, curvata, receptaculo inserta.
Antheræ muticæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, glabrum. Stylus linearis, curvatus,
sub-exsertus. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Aprili, in Julium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.

6. Capsula.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossoms, which are swelled at
the lower part, growing singly at the base of the leaves, and whitish;
the leaves grow by threes, and are three-sided.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows a foot high, upright, branching, and slender; the
branches are simple.

LEAVES grow by threes, are three-sided, linear, sharp-pointed, smooth,
slightly furrowed on the under part, and upright; the foot-stalks are
pressed to the stem.

The FLOWERS grow from the bottom of the foot-stalks of the leaves,
singly, are bent downward, and whitish; the foot-stalks are curved, and
whitish.

EMPALEMENT. Cup of four leaves, which are coloured, sharp-pointed, and
pressed to the blossom.

BLOSSOM swelled at the lower part, and straitened at the mouth; the
border is four-lobed; segments equal, pointed, and rolled back.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, which are bent, and fixed into the
receptacle. Tips beardless, within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud turban-shaped, and smooth. Shaft linear, curved, and
just without the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from April, till July.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and its Summit, magnified.

6. The Capsule.

[Illustration]




ERICA ampullacea.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris basi bicornibus, inclusis; foliis quaternis, retortis;
floribus viscosis, umbellatis, ampullaceis, striatis,
sub-sesquipollicaribus.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, pedalis, ramosus; rami flexuosi, filiformes.

FOLIA quaterna, trigona, ciliata, retorta, mucronata, supra plana,
subtus sulcata; petioli brevissimi, adpressi.

FLORES umbellati, sæpe quatuor, viscosi, terminales; pedunculi longi,
bracteis tribus spathulatis instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis spathulatis, margine ciliatis,
viscosis, adpressis.

COROLLA basi inflata, apice attenuata, longitudinaliter striata,
sub-sesquipollicaria, ore arctata, saturate purpurea; laciniis ovatis,
expansis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria; antheræ inclusæ, bifidæ, basi
bicornes.

PISTILLUM. Germen clavatum, sulcatum. Stylus exsertus, filiformis.
Stigma tetragonum, virescens.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Julii ad Octobrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium unum lente auctum.

2. Calyx et Corolla.

3. Calyx lente auctus.

4. Stamina et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; antherâ unâ lente auctâ.

6. Stylus et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with tips two-horned at their base, within the blossom; the
leaves grow by fours, and are rolled back; the flowers are clammy, grow
in bunches, are flask-shaped, striped, and nearly an inch and a half
long.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows about a foot high, and branching; the branches are
crooked, and thread-shaped.

LEAVES grow by fours, are three-sided, fringed, rolled back,
sharp-pointed, smooth on the upper, and furrowed on the under surface;
with short footstalks, pressed to the branches.

FLOWERS grow in bunches, mostly of four, are clammy, and terminate the
branches; the fruit-stalks are long, having three spathula-shaped floral
leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are spathula-shaped, fringed at the
edges, clammy, and pressed to the blossom.

BLOSSOM swelled at the base, and tapering to the top, striped
longitudinally, nearly an inch and a half long, straightened at the
mouth, which is of a deep purple; the segments egg-shaped, and
spreading.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads; tips within the blossom, are cleft in
two, and two-horned at their base.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel club-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft without the
blossom, and thread-shaped. Summit four-cornered, and green.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from the month of July till October.


REFERENCE.

1. A Leaf magnified.

2. The Empalement and Blossom.

3. The Empalement magnified.

4. The Chives and Pointal.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

6. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA baccans.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris cristatis, inclusis; folia quaterna, rigida, glauca;
corollis globosis, umbellatis calycibusque purpureis,


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, erectus, sesquipedalis, ramosissimus; rami rigidi,
erecti, torti.

FOLIA quaterna, glauca, incurvata, subtus sulcata, rigida, serrulata.

FLORES terminales, plerumque quatuor, umbellati, nutantes; pedunculi
longi, purpurei, bracteis tribus instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis, carinatis, adpressis.

COROLLA globosa purpurea, ima quadrata; limbo quadrilobo, laciniis
æqualibus, erectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, receptaculo inserta. Antheraæ
cristatæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen globosum, magnum, sulcatum; stylus subexsertus,
pyramidatus; stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Aprilis, in Julium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla,

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

5. Pistillum et Germen lente auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with crested tips, within the blossom; the leaves grow by fours,
are harsh, and of a whitish green; the flowers are globular, in bunches,
and are, as well as their cups, purple.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, upright, a foot and a half high, and very branching; the
branches are harsh, upright, and twisted.

LEAVES grow by fours, are of a whitish green, and bent inwards, furrowed
beneath, harsh, and slightly sawed at the edge.

FLOWERS grow at the ends of the branches, mostly by fours, in bunches,
and nodding; the foot-stalks are long and purple, having three floral
leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, leaflets egg-shaped, keeled, and pressed to
the blossom.

BLOSSOM globular, purple, and squared at the base; the border
four-lobed, the segments of which are upright, and equal.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads fixed into the receptacle. The tips
crested, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel globular, large, and furrowed; the shaft nearly
without the blossom, tapering from the base; the summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from April, till July.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Pointal and Seed-vessel magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA Banksia.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheræ muticæ, exsertæ, attenuata in filamenta plana; corolla
cylindrica, viridi-lutea; caulis decumbens, sub-spithamæus; folia terna.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS decumbens, rigidus, scaber, sub-spithamæus, ramosissimus; ramulis
brevibus.

FOLIA terna, subulata, trigona, acuminata, subtus tenuissime sulcata,
supra plana, glabra, profundé viridia; petiolis brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES in ultimis ramulis, bini vel terni, cernui; pedunculi brevissimi,
bracteis nullis.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex, _exterius_ triphyllum, foliolis lato-ovatis,
rigidis, carinatis, acuminatis; _interius_ tetraphyllum, foliolis
flaccidis, linearibus, longioribus.

COROLLA cylindrica, ad basin parum inflata, viridi-lutea, oris laciniis
revolutis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo linearia, plana, corolla multoties longiora,
receptaculo inserta. Antheræ muticæ, exsertæ, nec filamentis
distinguendis.

PISTILLUM. Germen sub-ovatum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Februarii, in Julium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla,

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, whose tips are beardless, without the blossom, and tapering into
threads, which are flat; the blossom is cylindrical, of a greenish
yellow; the stem droops, is scarce a span high; the leaves grow by
threes.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM drooping, harsh, rough, less than a span in height, and very much
branched; the smaller branches are short.

The LEAVES grow by threes, are awl-shaped, three-sided, and
sharp-pointed, slightly channelled on the under part, smooth on the
upper, and flat, of a deep green colour, having short foot-stalks
pressed to the stem.

FLOWERS grow by twos or threes at the end of the smaller branches,
hanging down; the foot-stalks are very short, without any floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup double, the _outer_ three-leaved, which are of a broad
egg-shape, harsh, keeled, and sharp pointed; the _inner_ is four-leaved,
longer than the former, linear, and limber.

The BLOSSOM is cylindrical, slightly swelled at the base, of a
greenish-yellow; the segments of the mouth are rolled back.

CHIVES. Eight linear, flat threads, much longer than the blossom, fixed
into the receptacle. Tips beardless, without the blossom, and not to be
distinguished from the threads.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel nearly oval. Shaft thread-shaped, and without the
blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from February, till July.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and its Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA Bruniades.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, exsertis, floribus terminalibus, sessilibus,
sub-ternis; corollis albidis, urceolatis, tectis calyce lanato; calycis
foliolis ovatis, carneis; foliis ternis, linearibus, obtusis, margine
revolutis, pilosis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS filiformis, sub-erectus, glaber, flexuosus; rami filiformes,
villosi, ramuli capillares, frequentes, tomentosi.

FOLIA terna, linearia, obtusa; seniora, reflexa, juniora patentia,
margine pilis longis hirta.

FLORES in extremis ramulis terminales, sessiles, sub-terni; bracteis
tribus, minutis, adpressis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis, concavis, exterioribus
totis densissime albo-lanatis, interioribus carneis.

COROLLA urceolata, pubescens, alba, tota tecta calyce lanato; oris
laciniis patentibus, obtusis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria. Antheris muticis, exsertis, atris.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, pubescentem, ad basin glandulosum. Stylus
filiformis, staminibus paulo longior. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Februarii in Junium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium unum, lente auctum.

2. Calyx.

3. Calyx, auctus.

4. Corolla.

5. Corolla, aucta.

6. Stamina, et Pistillum.

7. Stamina a Pistillo diducta.

8. Stamen unum, auctum.

9. Pistillum, auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, without the blossom, flowers terminating the
smaller branches, nearly without foot-stalks, mostly by threes; blossoms
white, pitcher-shaped, and covered by a woolly cup; the leaflets of the
cup are egg-shaped, and flesh-coloured; the leaves grow by threes, are
linear, blunt, rolled back at the edge, and hairy.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM thread-shaped, nearly upright, smooth, and growing zig-zag; the
branches are thread-shaped, and hairy; the smaller branches are
hair-like, numerous, and downy.

LEAVES grow by threes, are linear, and blunt, the older ones are bent
back, the younger ones spreading out, the edge covered with long hairs.

FLOWERS grow at the extremity of the younger branches, sitting close,
and mostly by threes; three small floral leaves, pressed to the cup.

EMPALEMENT. Cup of four leaves, which are egg-shaped, concave, on their
outsides covered with a thick white wool, and on their insides flesh
coloured.

BLOSSOM pitcher-shaped, downy, white, and covered totally by a woolly
cup; the segments of the mouth are spread out, and blunt.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads. Tips beardless, without the blossom,
and black.

POINTAL. Seed-bud turban-shape, downy, and glandular at the base. Shaft
thread-shaped, a little longer than the chives. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from February, till June.


REFERENCE.

1. A Leaf, magnified.

2. The Empalement.

3. The Empalement, magnified.

4. The Blossom.

5. The Blossom, magnified.

6. The Chives, and Pointal.

7. The Chives, detached from the Pointal.

8. A Chive, magnified.

9. The Pointal, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA caffra.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris aristatis, inclusis, stylo exserto; corollis
campanulatis, albidis; floribus umbellatis, secundis, cernuis,
odoratissimis; foliis quaternis, linearibus, scabridis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fructicosus, pedalis, rami et ramuli erecti, cinereo-tomentosi,
rigidi.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, obtusa, subciliata, scabrida, patentia;
petiolis brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES in ramis supremis racemosi, secundi, cernui, umbellati; pedunculi
brevissimi, bracteis tribus minutis instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis acuminatis, brevissimis,
glabris, adpressis,

COROLLA campanulata, minuta, odoratissima, alba; laciniis erectis,
apicibus parum reflexis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, apice curvata. Antheræ aristatæ,
inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen sub-globosum, sulcatum. Stylus exsertus. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Octobris, in Februarium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium unum, lente auctum.

2. Calyx, et Corolla.

3. Calyx, lente auctus.

4. Stamina, lente aucta.

5. Pistillum, lente auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with bearded tips, within the blossom; the shaft without; the
blossoms bell-shaped and white; flowers grow in bunches, pointing all
one way, nodding and very sweet; leaves grow by fours, linear and rough.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, growing a foot high, the larger and smaller branches grow
upright, of an ash colour, downy and harsh.

LEAVES grow by fours, linear, obtuse, a little hairy, roughish and
spreading; with very short foot-stalks, pressed to the branches.

FLOWERS grow on the upper branches in loose spikes, pointing one way,
nodding and in bunches; the foot-stalks very short, having three small
floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup of four leaves, which are tapered, very short, smooth
and pressed to the blossom.

BLOSSOM, bell-shaped, small, sweet-scented, and white; the segments
upright, with the points a little bent outwards.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, curved at the end. Tips bearded, and
within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud nearly globular and furrowed. Shaft without the
blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from October, till February.


REFERENCE.

1. A Leaf, magnified.

2. The Empalement, and Blossom.

3. The Empalement, magnified.

4. The Chives, magnified.

5. The Pointal, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA calycina.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris cristatis, inclusis; foliis ternis; rami filiformes;
corollis minutis, urceoli-formes; calycis foliola corolla longiora;
pedunculis longissimis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS filiformis, spithameus, erectus, ramosissimus.

FOLIA terna, lanceolata, supra concava, adpressa, glabra; petiolis
brevissimis.

FLORES plures, in ultimis ramulis terminales, umbellati; pedunculis
carneis, longissimis, bracteis tribus coloratis instructis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis lato-ovatis, carneis, corolla
longiora.

COROLLA minuta, urceoli-formis, apice dilute carnea, ad basi virescens;
oris laciniis reflexis, saturate carneis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria; antheræ cristatæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen sub-globosum. Stylus sub-exsertus filiformis. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Septembri, in Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Corolla.

3. Calyx, lente auctus.

4. Stamina, et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

6. Stylus, et Stigma lente, aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with crested tips, within the blossom; the leaves grow by threes;
the branches are thread-shaped, the blossoms small and pitcher-shaped;
the leaves of the cup are longer than the flower, the foot-stalks very
long.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM thread-shaped, grows half a foot high, upright, and very much
branched.

The LEAVES grow by threes, are lance-shaped, concave on the upper
surface, pressed to the stem, and smooth, having very short foot-stalks.

The FLOWERS are numerous, and terminate the smaller branches in bunches;
the foot-stalks are very long, flesh coloured, with three coloured
floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are of a broad oval form, flesh
coloured, and longer than the blossom.

The BLOSSOM is small, of a pitcher-shape, light flesh colour at the end,
greenish at the base; the segments of the mouth are bent back, and deep
flesh coloured.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads; the tips crested, and within the
blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel nearly globular; the shaft thread-shaped, partly
out of the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from September, till December.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Blossom.

3. The Empalement magnified.

4. The Chives and Pointal.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

6. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA campanulata.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; floribus solitariis, cernuis;
calycibus coloratis; corollis globoso-campanulatis, luteis; foliis
quaternis, linearibus, angustissimis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, pedalis, erectus, filiformis; rami et ramuli
filiformes, virgati, glabri.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, angusta, glabra, erecta; petiolis brevissimis,
adpressis.

FLORES terminales, subsolitarii, cernui; pedunculi colorati, bracteis
tribus, coloratis, subulatis, instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis, acuminatis, concavis,
adpressis, coloratis.

COROLLA globoso-campanulata, lutea; laciniis semi-ovatis, subreflexis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, capillaria, incurvata. Antheræ muticæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen sub-globosum. Stylus columnaris. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Junii, in Augustum.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Corolla.

3. Calyx, lente auctus.

4. Stamina, et Pistillum.

5. Anthera una, aucta.

6. Pistillum, lente auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossom; flowers grow singly,
hanging down; cups coloured; blossoms globularly bell-shaped, and
yellow; leaves grow by fours, are linear, and very narrow.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows a foot high, upright, and thread-shaped; the greater
and smaller branches are thread-shaped, twiggy, and smooth.

LEAVES grow by fours, linear, narrow, smooth, and upright; very short
foot-stalks, pressed to the branches.

FLOWERS grow mostly solitary, at the end of the smaller branches,
hanging down; the foot-stalks are coloured, having three awl-shaped,
coloured floral leaves on them.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, leaflets egg-shaped, pointed, concave,
pressed to the blossom, and coloured.

BLOSSOM, globularly bell-shaped, and yellow; the segments half
egg-shaped, and a little reflexed.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, curved inwards. Tips beardless, and
within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud nearly globe-shaped. Shaft pillar-shaped. Summit
four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from June, till August.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Blossom.

3. The Empalement, magnified.

4. The Chives, and Pointal.

5. A Tip, magnified.

6. The Pointal, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA capitata.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, sub-inclusis; corollis globosis, albidis,
tomentosis, tectis calyce magno, hispido, colorato; foliis ternis,
pilosis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS erectus, laxus, filiformis, fuseus; rami filiformes, villosi;
ramuli capillares, frequentes, tomentosi.

FOLIA terna, linearia, obtusa, dorso sulcata, pilis longis hirta;
petiolis brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES in extremis ramulis terminales bini, vel terni, cernuo-patenti;
pedunculi brevissimi, bracteis tribus, minutis, adpressis, instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis, concavis, incurvatis
maximis, totis densissime hirtis, adpressis, luteo-viridis.

COROLLA sub-globosa, alba, lanata, in sinu calycis fere recondita.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, receptaculo inserta. Antheræ muticæ
sub-inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum, apice pilosum. Stylus filiformis,
exsertus. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Julii, in Octobrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Corolla.

3. Calyx, lente auctus.

4. Stamina, et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

6. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, just within the blossoms, which are
globular, white and downy, being covered with a large, hairy, coloured
cup; leaves grow by threes, and are hairy.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM upright, weak, thread-shaped, and brown; branches thread-shaped,
and hairy; small branches like hairs, numerous, and downy.

LEAVES grow by threes, linear, blunt, furrowed at the back, and covered
with long, harsh hairs; foot-stalks very short, and pressed to the
branches.

FLOWERS grow at the extremity of the smaller branches, by twos or
threes, spreading out, and nodding; foot-stalks very short, having three
small floral leaves, which are pressed to the blossom.

EMPALEMENT. Cup of four leaves, which are egg-shaped, concave, turned
inwards, very large, quite covered with strong hairs, pressed to the
blossoms, and of a yellow-green.

BLOSSOM nearly globular, white and woolly, almost hid within the cup.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, fixed into the receptacle. Tips
beardless, and nearly within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud nearly round, and hairy at the end. Shaft
thread-shaped, and without the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from the month of July, till October.


REFERENCE.

1. Empalement, and Blossom.

2. A Blossom.

3. The Empalement, magnified.

4. The Chives, and Pointal.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one Tip magnified.

6. The Shaft, and its Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA cerinthoides.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; corollis tubulato-ventricosis, læte
sanguineis, fasciculatis, hispidis; foliis quaternis, rigidis, ciliatis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS flexibilis, erectus, cinereus, sesquipedalis; rami pauci, erecti,
raro ramulosi.

FOLIA quaterna, ciliata, oblonga, convexa, subtus sulco exerata,
petiolis brevibus, adpressis.

FLORES magni, sessiles, aggesti in capitulum, cernui, pedunculi hispidi,
bracteis tribus foliis similibus instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis lanceolatis, hispidis, foliis
similibus.

COROLLA, tubulato-ventricosa, læte sanguinea, hirsuta, ore obsolete
quadrifida; pollicaria.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria. Antheræ muticæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen cylindricum, hirsutum. Stylus filiformis,
sub-exsertus. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Augusti, in Aprilem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossoms, which are of an
inflated tubular shape, of a rich blood colour, hairy, and bundled
together; the leaves grow by fours, are harsh, and lashed.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM grows upright, pliant, ash-coloured, and a foot and a half high;
the branches are few, and upright, seldom branching.

The LEAVES grow by fours, are lashed, oblong, rounded on the upper
surface, and deeply furrowed on the under side, with short foot-stalks,
pressed to the stems.

The FLOWERS are large, growing in close bunches, fixed altogether at the
end of the branches, bending downward; the foot-stalks are hairy, having
three floral leaves, similar to the other leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are lance-shaped, hairy, and like the
other leaves.

BLOSSOM, of an inflated tubular form, hairy, and of a rich red or blood
colour, the mouth slightly cut into four segments; an inch long.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads. Tips beardless, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel cylinder shape, and hairy. Style thread-shaped,
nearly without the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August, till April.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and its Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA cernua.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris cristatis, inclusis; floribus umbellatis, cernuis,
secundis, sub-ovatis, pallide-carneis; foliis quaternis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, erectus, pedalis; rami sub-simplices, erecto-patenti.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, obtusa, subtus sulcata, sub-scabrida; petiolis
brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES in apice ramorem umbellati, cernui; pedunculi longi, colorati,
bracteis tribus, linearibus, instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis minutis, subulatis, ciliatis,
coloratis.

COROLLA sub-ovata, pallide-carnea; laciniis limbi acuminatis,
sub-erectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria apice introrsum declinata. Antheræ
cristatæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, fulcatum. Stylus cylindricus,
sub-inclusus. Stigma obsolete tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Augusti in Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx, lente auctus.

3. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

4. Germen, Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with crested tips, within the blossom; the flowers grow in
bunches, nodding, all pointing one way, nearly egg-shaped, and of a pale
flesh colour; leaves growing by fours.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, upright, and grows a foot high; the branches are almost
simple, upright, and spreading.

LEAVES grow by fours, linear, blunt, channelled beneath, and roughish;
having very short foot-stalks pressed to the branches.

FLOWERS grow in bunches, at the end of the branches, nodding; the
foot-stalks are long and coloured, with three linear floral-leaves on
them.

EMPALEMENT. Cup of four leaves, which are small, awl-shaped, fringed,
and coloured.

BLOSSOM, nearly egg-shaped, of a pale flesh-colour; the segments of the
border tapered, and nearly upright.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, bent downward on the inner side. Tips
crested, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud turban-shaped, and channelled. Shaft cylindrical just
within the blossom. Summit obscurely four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August, till December.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




A SHORT DISSERTATION, &c.


     Antecedent to the year 1772, the few species of this, now so
     numerous Genus, known in our British gardens, were, the E.
     vulgaris, E. Tetralix, E. cineria and E. vagans natives; the E.
     Dabœcii, from Ireland; the E. arborea introduced in 1748, from
     Madeira; the E. herbacea or carnea in 1763, from Switzerland; the
     E. mediterranea in 1765, from Minorca, and the E. scoparia, E.
     viridi-purpurea, E. australis, E. ciliaris and E. umbellata, from
     Portugal, between the years 1768 and 1707. The two other European
     species we possess, the E. stricta and E. multiflora, natives of
     Spain, have been but twelve years in cultivation with us. Of the
     African species, found within the district of the Cape of Good Hope
     and the adjacent territory, which have swelled the Genus to so
     great an extent; and which, but as an echo to the general voice,
     may be said to contribute, by the extreme brilliancy of the flowers
     of these species, more than any other, to the present splendor of
     our green-houses, were unknown, till the above æra, to our English
     botanists, but by name. In the year 1771 seeds of two species were
     received, at the Hammersmith nursery, from the Cape, both of them
     vegetated; the first which flowered, proving the E. tubiflora, of
     the Sp. Plant. of Linnæus; the other, from the resemblance it bears
     to the Spruce Fir, was then named E. abietina; but since, altered
     in the Kew catalogue, to E. concinna. Two years subsequent, 1774,
     Mr. Francis Masson, botanical collector to His Majesty at the Cape,
     laid the foundation for the celebrity of that superb collection at
     Kew, which for many years, with unrivalled lustre, far outshone all
     others, particularly by the number and variety of this most
     beautiful tribe of plants: for which we refer to the second Vol. of
     the catalogue of that garden; where the E. curviflora, E. lutea, E.
     cruenta, E. persoluta, E. baccans, E. marifolia, E. abietina, E.
     corifolia, E. paniculata, E. empetrifolia, E. spumosa, E. capitata,
     E. conspicua, E. cerinthoides, E. viscaria, E. Plukenetii, E.
     Petiveri, and E. petiolata, are all stated to have been of that
     year’s introduction. From this period, till within these few years,
     the accession was so rapid, that it would be difficult, nay nearly
     impracticable, to ascertain the precise date when most of the
     remaining species were introduced; as many different collectors
     were about this time, or shortly after, producing in their
     collections new species to which they each claimed the honour of
     priority of introduction; the enumeration of these, therefore, in
     succession would be but a list of names, and in no way illustrate
     the present subject. It will be nothing relevant to our purpose, to
     know how many Ericas were enumerated by Petiver, Plukenet, Hermann,
     Oldenland, Ray, &c. &c.; as, before Linnæus had, by his mode of
     classification, determined the precise limits of the Genus, the
     confusion that then pervaded all the elder Botanists is such, that
     any comment from them, would rather perplex, than elucidate.
     Wherefore, beginning with the Systema Naturæ of Linnæus, Vol. II.
     of 1767, including the European species, he there enumerates but
     42; and Dahlgren, in 1770, edited a dissertation, under his eye, on
     the genus, containing a catalogue of 58 names from Bergius, the
     Mantissa, &c. Thunberg returning from Africa in 1772, added 13 to
     the number; all of which were inserted in the Supplementum
     Plantarum of 1781. From this last work, and some other sources,
     Murray has, in his Syst. Veg. of 1784, made up a Catalogue of 74
     names. The last to be noticed, till the appearance of the Hort.
     Kew. is, the Dissertatio de Erica; published under the inspection
     of Thunberg, in 1785, with a list and descriptions of 91 species.
     In the year 1789, a Catalogue of the plants cultivated in the Royal
     Gardens at Kew, was published by Mr. Aiton; where, 41 Heaths are to
     be found in the 2d Vol.; and four in the addenda at the end of the
     3d, making in all 45. Martyn in his Edition of Miller’s Dictionary,
     fasciculus of 1795, article Erica, enumerates but 84. Willdenow,
     collating from all the foregoing, and assisted by his friend
     Wendland, of the Royal Gardens at Herenhausen, Hanover; has mounted
     the list to 137, in his Species Plantarum, now publishing in
     continuation at Berlin. This, however, as will appear by the
     catalogue, falls far short of the number, we have now, in actual
     cultivation in Britain. From the great number of beautiful
     specimens lately received by G. Hibbert, Esq. many of which were
     accompanied by seeds, now living plants, contributing to the
     present richness of the extensive and superb Collection of that
     Gentleman at Clapham, and brought from the Cape of Good Hope by Mr.
     Niven, who was employed for the only purpose, of amassing the
     vegetable treasures of that country, to enrich the Clapham gardens,
     and herbarium; as well as, from the numberless importations, by
     different hands, of seeds, since we have been in possession of that
     territory; a fair conjecture may be made, that the Genus is not
     bounded, by double the number of species with which we are at
     present acquainted. Few, if any, of the species but have been
     increased by cuttings; which has occasioned the total disuse of
     propagation by layers; wherefore, the only methods we shall treat
     of, is this, and from the seed. The process for the making, and
     planting of the cuttings, is as follows. Let a middle sized pot be
     prepared by filling it, within three inches of the margin, with
     small broken potsherds, or some such matter; to the end that, a
     constant and ready drain may be gained for the water, which it will
     be necessary to give the cuttings, at any time the earth, &c. shall
     appear dry on the surface. Then consulting the list given with
     Volume 1st, take a sufficient quantity of sandy loam, sandy peat,
     or common sand, or a mixture of any of them finely sifted, to fill
     the pot up to the margin, and press it lightly with the hand; thus
     prepared it is fit to receive the cuttings. These must be taken
     about an inch long, or shorter, according to the nature and season
     of the plants making their fresh branches, from the smallest and
     tenderest shoots; cutting off the leaves from two-thirds of their
     length close to the shoot; for which a pair of small scissars is
     the most convenient. When a few are thus made ready, for not many
     should be cut at a time, lest they wither before they can be
     planted, with a small piece of wood, tapered to a point, dibble
     them into the pot; fixing the lower end of the cutting as firm as
     possible. When the pot has been thus filled with them, at about
     half an inch distance each way, leaving a clear half inch from the
     inner edge; cover them with a small bell-glass, procured as near as
     possible to fit within its inner rim, then place it under a large
     hand-glass, or frame, where it must be kept from the stronger rays
     of the sun, until the cuttings are rooted. Some time after this has
     taken place, which will be known by their growth, the small
     bell-glass must be first removed; about a week after, the pot may
     be taken from under the large hand-glass, and the plants exposed to
     the open air, in the shade of a north wall, or in winter put in the
     shady part of the green-house, to protect them from the sun and
     wind, till they are removed into separate pots. The seeds of some
     species, which ripen in this country, as well as those which may be
     procured from the Cape, may be sown about the middle of March, in
     pots, prepared in the same way as directed for cuttings; with this
     exception, that the earth be invariably sandy peat finely sifted;
     the seeds should be covered so slightly, that they may be but just
     concealed; when covered, they must be watered with a watering-pot
     whose rose, or head should admit of a passage for the water, only
     as a light dew; lest the seeds be all thrown together, or washed
     over the side of the pot. Both plants from cuttings, and seedlings,
     may be removed with greater safety whilst quite young, than after
     they have acquired a considerable size. The smallest pots that can
     be procured, are the best for the first transplanting; in which
     they should remain, till the pots are quite filled with roots. The
     earth in which all Heaths thrive most is a soft, loose, sandy peat.
     That nothing may be wanting, which we can contribute, to the
     illustration of the Genus; a list is subjoined, communicated by
     Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, of all those species cultivated by them at
     their nursery, Hammersmith; unquestionably, the most extensive
     collection, of living plants, of every denomination, now in Europe.




ERICA coccinea.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, sub-inclusis, stylus exsertus; flores in
sumitate ramorem, verticillati, clavati, curvati, coccinei; foliola
calycis acuta; foliis senis, incurvis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS erectus, cinereo-fuscus, pedalis; rami verticillati,
erecto-patentes, raro ramulosi.

FOLIA sena, incurvata, acuta, glabra, sub-glauca; petiolis adpressis.

FLORES in summite ramorum verticillati, conserti, brevissime
pedunculati, bracteæ calyciformes.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis subulatis, marginibus
membranaceis, acutis, carinatis.

COROLLA curvata, elevata, pubescens, sanguinea; oris laciniis erectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, longitudine tubi. Antheræ muticæ,
sub-inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus.
Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Augusti, in Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, just within the blossom, shaft without; the
flowers grow at the end of branches in whorls, club-shaped, curved, and
of a scarlet colour; the leaves of the cup are sharp-pointed; the leaves
grow by sixes, and are turned inwards.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM upright, of a brownish ash-colour, growing a foot high; branches
grow in whorls, upright, and spreading, seldom branching.

LEAVES grow by sixes, turned inwards, sharp-pointed, smooth, and of a
bluish green; the leaf-stems pressed to the branches.

FLOWERS grow in close whorls at the top of the branches; the foot-stalks
very short, the floral leaves appearing like a second cup.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are awl-shaped, skinny at the edges,
sharp-pointed, and keel-shaped.

BLOSSOM curved, club-shaped, downy, and of a blood colour; the segments
of the mouth are upright.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, the length of the tube. Tips beardless,
and just within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud turban-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped, and
without the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August, till December.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and its Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA conspicua.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris basi bicornibus, exsertis; corollis clavatis,
sesquipollicaribus, luteis; foliis quaternis, glabris, obtusis, crassis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, erectus, tripedalis, ramosus; ramulis verticillatis,
brevibus.

FOLIA quaterna, obtusa, linearia, crassa; petiolis brevissimis,
adpressis.

FLORES in apicibus ramulorum terminales, nutantes, pedunculis brevibus,
bracteis tribus spathulatis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum; foliolis obtusis, glabris, sub-ovatis.

COROLLA clavata, sesquipollicaris, lutea, basi attenuata; oris laciniis
magnis, revolutis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, receptaculo inserta; antheris
bifidis, basi bicornibus, exsertis.

PISTILLUM. Germen cylindricum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Junii in Augustum.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, antherâ unâ lente auctâ.

5. Stylus et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with tips two-horned at their base, and without the blossom: the
blossoms are club-shaped, an inch and a half long, yellow: the leaves
grow by fours, are smooth, blunt, and thick.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, upright, grows three feet high, and branching: the smaller
branches are short, and grow in whorls.

LEAVES grow by fours, are blunt, linear, thick, and have short
foot-stalks pressed to the branches.

FLOWERS are terminal at the summit of the smaller branches, waving,
having short foot-stalks, with three spathula-shaped floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved: leaves blunt, smooth, and nearly
egg-shaped.

BLOSSOM club-shaped, an inch and a half long, yellow, and tapering to
the base: the segments of the mouth are large, and rolled back.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, fixed to the receptacle: the tips are
cleft, two-horned at their base, and without the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel cylinder-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped.
Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from June till August.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA coronata.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris aristatis, inclusis; corollis cylindrico-clavatis,
speciosissimis; foliis octonis seu spiraliter sparsis, truncatis,
arcuatis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, erectus, bipedalis, basi simplicissimus, rami pauci,
simplices, longi.

FOLIA octona, linearia, obtusa, supra scabra, subtus sulcata, attenuata
in petiolos longos capillares.

FLORES plures, subterminales, simpliciter verticillati, conserti,
viscosi; pedunculi longi recurvati, bracteis tribus instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis lanceolatis, viscosis,
adpressis.

COROLLA cylindrico-clavata, pollicaria, apice recurvata, ima parte
profunde carnea, apice viridie, ore arctata, laciniis rectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria; receptaculo inserta. Antheræ
aristatæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen clavatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, subexsertus.
Stigma peltatum, concavum, viride.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a Februarii, in Aprilem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium unum, cum petiolo.

2. Calyx, et Corolla.

3. Calyx, lente auctus.

4. Stamina, et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

6. Stylus, et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with bearded tips, within the blossoms, which are cylindrically
club-shaped and very shewy; the leaves grow by eights or spirally
scattered, appear cut off at the ends and arched.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, erect, grows two feet high, simple at the base, with but
few branches, which are simple, and long.

LEAVES grow by eights, are linear, blunt, rough on their upper, and
furrowed on their under surface, tapering into long hair-like
foot-stalks.

The FLOWERS are numerous, nearly terminating the branches, in simple
whorls, crowded together, and clammy; the foot-stalks are long, bent
backward, with three floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, leaflets lance-shaped, clammy, and pressed
to the blossom.

BLOSSOM cylindrically club-shaped, an inch long, bent back at the point,
the lower part of a strong flesh colour, the end green, compressed at
the mouth, whose segments are straight.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads fixed into the receptacle. Tips bearded,
and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel club-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped,
almost without the blossom. Summit shield-shaped, concave, and green.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from February, till April.


REFERENCE.

1. A Leaf, with its foot-stalk.

2. The Empalement, and Blossom.

3. The Empalement, magnified.

4. The Chives, and Pointal.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

6. The Shaft, and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA costata.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; stylo exserto; corollis
sub-cylindraceis, incarnatis, costatis; foliis pubescentibus, ternis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, bipedalis, erectus ramosus; ramuli frequentissimi.

FOLIA caulina, terna, recta, linearia, obtusa, pubescentia; folia ramea,
erectiora, ovata, sub-serrata, acuminata; petiolis adpressis.

FLORES plures, tres, quatuorve ramuli terminates; pedunculi brevissimi.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex; _interius_, tetraphyllum, foliolis
sub-ovatis, acuminatis, serratis, coloratis, apice sulcatis, adpressis;
_exterius_ triphyllum, priori brevioribus, virescentibus.

COROLLA sub-cylindracea, apice paulula curvata, incarnata, costata; oris
laciniis erectis, albidis, obtusis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, ima parte spathulata, receptaculo inserta.
Antheræ inclusæ, muticæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen sub-cylindricum, sulcatum. Stylus attenuatus,
exsertus, apice curvatus. Stigma tetragonum virescens.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a Februarii, in Junium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium unum, lente auctum.

2. Calyx, et Corolla.

3. Calyx, lente auctus.

4. Stamina, et Pistillum.

5. Stamen unum, lente auctum.

6. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossom; pointal without;
blossoms nearly cylindrical, flesh-coloured, and ribbed; leaves downy,
growing by threes.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows two feet high, upright, and branching; the smaller
branches are numerous.

The LEAVES of the stem grow by threes, straight out, linear, blunt, and
downy; those on the smaller branches, more upright, egg-shaped, a little
sawed at the edges, and sharp pointed; the foot-stalks pressed to the
branches.

The FLOWERS are numerous, growing by threes, or fours, at the end of the
smaller branches; foot-stalks very short.

EMPALEMENT. Cup double; the _inner_ four-leaved; leaves almost
egg-shaped, pointed, sawed, coloured, furrowed at the point, and pressed
to the blossom; the _outer_ three-leaved, shorter than the former, and
greenish.

BLOSSOM nearly cylindrical, curved a little at the end, of a flesh
colour, and ribbed; the segments of the mouth are upright, white and
blunt.

CHIVES. Eight threads, spathula-shaped at the base, and fixed into the
receptacle. Tips within the blossom, and beardless.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel almost cylinder-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft
tapered, without the blossom, and curved at the end. Summit
four-cornered, and green.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from February, till June.


REFERENCE.

1. A Leaf, magnified.

2. The Empalement, and Blossom.

3. The Empalement, magnified.

4. The Chives, and Pointal.

5. One Chive, magnified.

6. The Shaft, and its Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA cruenta.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris aristatis, sub-inclusis, foliis quaternis, corollis
sub-ternis, glabris, clavato-cylindricis, pollicaribus; saturate
sanguineis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, bipedalis, erectus; rami erecti, ramulosi; ramulis
brevissimis, frequentissimis.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, glabra, nitida, saturate viridia, petiolis
brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES in ramulis terminales, prope caulis summitatem, racemum quali
formantes longum; pedunculi longi, bracteis tribus ad basin instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis lanceolatis, serratis,
adpressis.

COROLLA clavato-cylindrica, glabra, cruenta, pollicaris; oris laciniis
rectis, obtusis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, receptaculo inserta; antheræ
aristatæ, sub-inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen sub-ovatum, sulcatum, pubescens; stylus exsertus;
stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Augusti, in Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx, lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, whose tips are bearded, and just within the blossom; the leaves
grow by fours, the flowers mostly by threes, and are smooth,
cylindrically club-shaped, an inch long, and of a deep blood colour.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows two feet high, and upright; the branches grow
upright, having many smaller branches, which are thick set, and very
short.

The LEAVES grow by fours, are linear, smooth, shining, and of a deep
green, having very short foot-stalks, pressed to the stem.

The FLOWERS terminate the shorter branches near the summit of the stem,
forming as it were a long bunch; the foot-stalks are long, having three
floral leaves at their base.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are lance-shaped, sawed, and pressed
to the blossom.

The BLOSSOM is cylindrically club-shaped, smooth, blood colour, and an
inch long; the segments of the mouth are obtuse, and straight.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, fixed into the receptacle; the tips are
bearded, and just within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel nearly egg-shaped, furrowed, and downy; Shaft
without the blossom; Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August, till December.


REFERENCE.

1. Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA cubica.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris basi bicornibus, sub-inclusis; stylus longissimus;
corollis sub-campanulatis, purureis, oris laciniis patulis, maximis,
ovatis; foliis sub-quaternis, obtusis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS erectus, teres, ramosus, fruticosus, pedalis; rami et ramuli
filiformes, laxi, erecti.

FOLIA quaterna, sæpe quina, obtusa, reflexa, apice incurvata, glabra,
nitida, subtus sulcata; petiolis rubris, adpressis.

FLORES sub-terminales, umbellati, cernui; pedunculi longissimi,
angulati, purpurei, foliolis binis, coloratis instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis, acuminatis, adpressis,
apicibus viridis.

COROLLA globoso-campanulata, purpurea, limbo maximo, expanso; laciniis
ovatis, concavis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, longitudine tubi, receptaculo
inserta. Antheræ bifidæ, ad basin bicornutæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen sub-globosum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus, corolla
duplo longior, purpureus. Stigma concavum, marginatum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Aprili, in Julium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with tips two-horned at the base, nearly within the blossoms;
shaft very long; blossoms almost bell-shaped, and purple, having the
segments of the mouth spreading, very large, and egg-shaped; leaves
growing mostly by fours, and blunt ended.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM upright, cylindrical, branching, shrubby, growing a foot high; the
larger and smaller branches are thread-shaped, weak, and upright.

LEAVES grow by fours, often by fives, blunt ended, bent back, and turned
inward at the point; smooth, shining, and channelled beneath;
foot-stalks red, and pressed to the stem.

The FLOWERS grow near the summits of the branches, in bunches, hanging
down; having very long foot-stalks, angled, purple, and two small,
coloured leaves on them.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are egg-shaped, tapered, and pressed
to the blossom, the points green.

BLOSSOM globularly bell-shaped and purple, the border very large and
spreading; the segments egg-shaped and concave.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, the length of the tube, fixed into the
receptacle. Tips two-cleft, and two-horned at the base.

POINTAL. Seed-bud nearly globular. Shaft thread-shaped, without the
blossom, twice its length, and purple. Summit concave, and bordered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from April, till July.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA curviflora.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, sub-exsertis; corollis curvatis, clavato
cylindricis, pubescentibus, terminalibus, luteo-aurantiis; foliis
quaternis, linearibus, glabris.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, bipedalis; laxus, superne villosus; rami laxi,
ramulosi, ramulis brevissimis, frequentissimis, sparsis.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, obtusa, glabra, subtus sulcata.

FLORES terminales in ramulis, patenti, racemum longum formantes;
pedunculi brevissimi, foliolis tribus, adpressis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis subulatis, acuminatis,
glabris, adpressis.

COROLLA curvata, clavata, pollicaris, pubescentia, luteo-aurantia; oris
laciniis expansis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, curvata, longitudine tubi. Antheræ
muticæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen clavatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, curvatus,
exsertus. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Julii, in Novembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx, lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, just without the blossoms, which are curved,
cylindrically club-shaped, downy, terminating the branches, and of a
yellow gold colour; the leaves grow by fours, are linear, and smooth.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows two feet high, weak, and hairy at the top; branches
weak and numerous; the smaller branches are very short, numerous, and
scattered.

LEAVES grow by fours, are linear, blunt, smooth, and furrowed
underneath.

FLOWERS terminate the smaller branches, spreading out, and forming a
long spike; foot-stalks very short, with three small leaves pressed to
the cup.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are awl-shaped, tapering, smooth, and
pressed to the blossom.

BLOSSOM curved, club-shaped, an inch long, downy, and of a yellow gold
colour; the segments of the mouth spread outward.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, which are curved, and the length of the
blossom. Tips beardless.

POINTAL. Seed-bud club-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped,
curved, and without the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from July, till November.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and its Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA discolor.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris aristatis, inclusis; stylo exserto; corollis tubulosis,
subcylindraceis; foliis ternis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, tripedalis, teres, erectus, gracilis, superne
pubescens, ramulis subsimplicibus.

FOLIA terna, linearia, erecto-patentia, supra plana, subtus revoluta,
nitida, saturate viridia.

FLORES plerumque tres, subcernui, ramei, terminales, prope caulis
summitatem.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex, _interius_ tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis,
erectis, luteo-virentibus: _exterius_ triphyllum, foliolis brevioribus
priori incumbentibus.

COROLLA tubulosa, subcylindracea, ima parte, carnea, pallida, summa,
flavo-virescente, limbo quadrilobo, æquali erectiusculo.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, receptaculo inserta. Antheræ
oblongiusculæ, bipartitæ, inclusæ, aristatæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum. Stylus filiformis, corolla longior, apice
inflexo. Stigma subtetragonum, virescens.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a Novembri in Aprilem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with bearded tips within the blossom; the pointal standing out;
the blossom tubular, nearly cylindrical; leaves growing by threes.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows to three feet high, cylindrical, upright, slender,
downy at the top, the branches seldom divided.

LEAVES growing by threes, linear, between upright and spreading, smooth
on the upper, and rolled back on the under, surface, shining and dark
green.

FLOWERS are commonly three together, bending a little downward,
terminating the branches near the upper part of the stem.

EMPALEMENT. Cup double, the _inner_ four-leaved, ovate, erect, and of a
greenish yellow: the _outer_ three-leaved, the leaves shorter than the
former, and lying on them.

BLOSSOM tubular, nearly cylindrical, of a light flesh colour at the
base, and yellowish green at the mouth, which is divided into four equal
nearly erect segments.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, fixed into the receptacle. Tips nearly
oblong, divided, bearded, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel oblong. Shaft thread-shaped, longer than the
blossom, the point bending. The Summit nearly four-cornered, and
greenish.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Time of flowering from November till April.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement with the Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA droseroides.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris cristatis, inclusis; corolla ventricosa, ore obliqua,
purpurea; pedunculis coloratis, longissimis; foliis alternis, sparsis,
obtusis, pilis glandulosis micantibus hirtis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS erectus, spithameus; rami et ramuli filiformes, sparsi,
erecto-patentes, virgati.

FOLIA alterna, sparsa, linearia, obtusa, apice reflexa, pilis
glandulosis hirta.

FLORES terminales, sub-umbellati, sub-erecti; pedunculi filiformes,
foliis duplo longiores; bracteæ minutæ, coloratæ.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum; foliolis sub-ovatis, viscosis,
acuminatis, coloratis, apicibus reflexis.

COROLLA ventricosa, purpurea, costata, pubescens, ore obliqua, arctata,
profunde sanguinea; laciniis cordatis, expansis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, torta, receptaculo inserta; antheræ
cristatæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen clavatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, purpureus.
Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Julii ad Octobrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; antherâ unâ lente auctâ.

5. Stylus et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with crested tips, within the blossom, which is big-bellied,
oblique-mouthed, and purple; the foot-stalks are coloured, and very
long; leaves grow alternate, scattered, blunt, and thick with shining
glandular hairs.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM upright, about a span high; the larger and smaller branches are
thread-shaped, scattered, upright, spreading, and twiggy.

LEAVES grow alternate, scattered, linear, blunt, the end bent back, and
thick with glandular hairs.

FLOWERS are terminal, nearly in bunches, almost upright; the foot-stalks
are thread-shaped, and twice as long as the leaves; the floral leaves
are small, and coloured.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved; leaves nearly egg-shaped, clammy, pointed,
coloured, and bent outward at the top.

BLOSSOM big-bellied, purple, ribbed, and downy, with the mouth oblique,
narrowed, and of a deep blood colour; the segments are heart-shaped, and
spreading.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, which are twisted, and fixed into the
receptacle; the tips are crested, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel club-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped, and
purple. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from the month of July till October.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA exsurgens.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, exsertis; foliis quaternis, mucronatis,
apicibus reflexis; corollis clavato-cylindraceis, verticillatis,
aurantiis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, pedalis et ultra, erectus, basi simplicissimus; rami
verticillati, simplices, erecti.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, glabra, apice reflexa, mucronata, supra plana,
subtus sulcata, unguicularia, petiolis adpressis.

FLORES in medio ramorum verticillati, recti; verticilli alter alteri
exsurgentes; pedunculi longi, bracteis tribus instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis lanceolatis, acuminatis,
carinatis, viscosis, adpressis.

COROLLA clavato-cylindrica, pollicaria, aurantia; ore limbo quadrilobo
revoluto, laciniis superioribus longioribus.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, receptaculo inserta. Antheræ muticæ,
magnæ, exsertæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen clavatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, staminibus
longior. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Septembris, in Martium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, without the blossom; leaves grow by fours,
are sharp pointed, and bent back at the point; the blossoms are
cylindrically club-shaped, grow in whorls, and orange coloured.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, rather more than a foot high, upright, and simple at the
base; the branches grow in whorls, are simple and upright.

The LEAVES grow by fours, are linear, smooth, bent downward at the
point, which is sharp, smooth on the upper, and furrowed on the under
surface, half an inch long, with the footstalks pressed to the branches.

The FLOWERS grow in whorls about the middle of the branches, straight
out; the whorls rise out of each other in succession; the foot-stalks
are long, having three floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, leaflets lance-shaped, tapered,
keel-shaped, clammy, and pressed to the blossom.

BLOSSOM, cylindrically club-shaped, an inch long and orange coloured;
the segments of the mouth are four, which are rolled back, the upper
longer than the lower ones.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, fixed into the receptacle. Tips
beardless, very large, and without the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel club-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped, and
longer than the chives. Summit, four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from September, till March.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA flexuosa.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, exsertis, rubris; corollis minutis, albidis,
sub-campanulatis; bractæ albæ, calyciformes; rami flexuosi; foliis
ternis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticus, pedalis vel paulo ultra, inserne nudus, erectus; rami
flexuosi, virgati; ramuli brevissimi, sub-terni.

FOLIA terna, linearia, glabra, acuta, subtus sulcata; petiolis
adpressis.

FLORES in ultimis ramulis terminates, subterni; pedunculi
albo-tomentosi, bracteæ albidæ, juxta basin calycis sitæ.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis, acuminatis, concavis,
albidis, adpressis.

COROLLA minuta, sub-campanulata, albida, glabra; oris laciniis
adpressis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria apice incurvata. Antheræ muticæ,
exsertæ, rubræ.

PISTILLUM. Germen sub-rotundum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus.
Stigma peltatum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Aprili, in Julium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Corolla.

3. Calyx lente auctus.

4. Stamina, et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

6. Germen, Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, red, and without the blossoms, which are
small, white, almost bell-shaped; the floral leaves are white, and
resemble the cup; the branches grow zig-zag; the leaves grow by threes.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows rather more than a foot high, naked beneath, and
upright; the branches grow zig-zagged, and twiggy; the smaller branches
are short, and grow mostly by threes.

The LEAVES grow by threes, are linear and smooth, sharp, furrowed
underneath; the foot-stalks pressed to the stem.

The FLOWERS terminate the ends of the smaller branches, mostly by
threes; the foot-stalks are of a downy white; the floral leaves are
white, and placed close to the cup.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are egg-shaped, pointed, concave,
white, and pressed to the blossom.

BLOSSOM small, nearly bell-shaped, white, and smooth; the segments of
the mouth are pressed to the threads.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, bent inwards at the end. Tips are red,
beardless, and without the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel nearly round, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped,
and without the blossom. Summit shield-shaped.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from April, till July.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Blossom.

3. The Empalement magnified.

4. The Chives, and Pointal.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

6. The Seed-vessel, Shaft, and its Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA glauca.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris cristatis, inclusis; floribus umbellatis, terminalibus,
livide-purpureis; pedunculis longissimis; bracteis ovatis, maximis;
folia terna, linearia, carnosa, glauca.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS erectus, fragilis, sesquipedalis; rami erecti, subsimplices,
longi.

FOLIA terna, linearia, acuta, patentia, sulcata, glabra, carnosa,
glauca; petiolis adpressis.

FLORES terminales, umbellati, nutantes; pedunculi longissimi, colorati,
bracteis ternis, coloratis, ovatis, concavis instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis, coloratis, reflexis.

COROLLA subconica, atro-purpurea, ore arctata; laciniis reflexis,
acuminatis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, capillaria, receptaculo inserta. Antheræ
cristatæ, ad basin gibbæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen subglobosum, sulcatum. Stylus inclusus, cylindricus.
Stigma peltatum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Maii, in Julium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx, lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta.

5. Stamen unum lente auctum.

6. Germen, Stylus, et Stigma; Stigma lente auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with crested tips, within the blossoms, which grow in bunches, at
the end of the branches, and are of a livid purple colour; the
foot-stalks very long; the floral leaves are egg-shaped, and very large;
leaves grow by threes, are linear, fleshy, and of a sea-green colour.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM upright, brittle, grows a foot and a half high; the branches grow
upright, with few smaller branches, and long.

LEAVES grow by threes, are linear, pointed, spreading, furrowed, smooth,
fleshy, and of a sea-green colour; the foot-stalks pressed to the stem.

FLOWERS terminate the branches in bunches, and grow nodding; the
foot-stalks are very long, and coloured, having three coloured,
egg-shaped, concave, floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup of four leaves, which are egg-shaped, coloured, and
reflexed.

BLOSSOM, nearly conical, of a dark purple, narrowed at the mouth; the
segments reflexed, and tapered.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, fixed into the receptacle. Tips
crested, gouty at the base, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud nearly globular, and furrowed. Shaft within the
blossom, and cylinder-shaped. Summit shield-shaped.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from May, till July.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal.

5. A Chive, magnified.

6. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit; the Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA glutinosa.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; corollis glutinosissimis,
verticillatis, confertis, melinis, pollicaribus; foliis senis,
micantibus.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS bipedalis, erectus. Rami simplices, longi, raro ramulosi.

FOLIA sena, linearia, nitida, acuminata, glabra, læviter sulcata,
patentia; petiolis adpressis.

FLORES in apicibus ramorum, verticillato-conferti, horizontales;
pedunculi breves, bracteis tribus calyci adpressis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis lanceolatis, viscosis,
adpressis.

COROLLA cylindrica, pollicaria, pallido-lutea, glutinosissima, nitida,
oris laciniis parum reflexis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, capillaria. Antheræ muticæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, sulcatum, apice pilosum. Stylus
filiformis, exsertus. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Septembri in Martium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; antherâ unâ lente auctâ.

5. Stylus et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossoms, which are extremely
clammy, in whorls, pressed together, of a straw colour, and an inch
long; leaves by sixes, shining.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM two feet high, and upright. Large branches simple, long, and seldom
branching.

LEAVES by sixes, linear, shining, pointed, smooth, slightly furrowed,
and spreading. Foot-stalks pressed to the branches.

FLOWERS grow at the summit of the branches, pressed together in whorls,
and horizontal; foot-stalks short, having three floral leaves pressed to
the cup.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, with spear-shaped clammy leaflets, pressed
to the blossom.

BLOSSOM cylindrical, an inch long, of a pale yellow, very clammy,
shining, with the segments of the mouth slightly reflexed.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads. The tips beardless, within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel turban-shaped, furrowed, and hairy at the top.
Shaft thread-shaped, and without the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from September till March.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA grandiflora.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, cohærentibus, valdè corollam excedentibus;
floribus verticillatis, horizontalibus; corollis clavatis, aurantiis,
sesquipollicaribus, glabris; foliis sub-quaternis, patentibus.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, erectus, tripedalis et ultra, strictissimus; rami
simplicissimi, erecti, verticillati.

FOLIA quaterna, levitèr sulcata, rigida, recta, sub-pollicaria, petiolis
laxis.

FLORES ex axillis foliorum sub-apice ramorum verticillati; pedunculi
brevi, bracteis tribus, subulatis, instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis subulatis, adpressis, glabris.

COROLLA clavata, sesquipollicaris, parum curvata, glabra, aurantia;
laciniis æqualibus, suberectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, apice incurvata. Antheris muticis,
bifidis, lateribus cohærentibus, longè exsertis.

PISTILLUM. Germen clavatum, sulcatum, ad basin glandulosum. Stylus
filiformis, staminibus paulo longior. Stigma apice concavum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Maii, in Septembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum, auctum.

4. Pistillum, et Germen, Stigma diductum et lente auctum.

5. Germen, auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, sticking together, and protruding
considerably beyond the blossom; flowers grow in whorls horizontally;
blossoms club-shaped, orange coloured, an inch and half long, and
smooth; leaves grow mostly by fours, spreading.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, upright, grows three feet high or more, and very stiff;
branches very simple, upright, and grow in whorls.

LEAVES grow by fours, are slightly furrowed, harsh, straight, near an
inch long, with loose foot-stalks.

FLOWERS grow from the foot-stalks of the leaves, close to the stem, near
the summit of the branches, in whorls; foot-stalks short, having three
awl-shaped floral leaves on them.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, leaflets awl-shaped, pressed to the
blossom, and smooth.

BLOSSOM club-shaped, an inch and a half long, a little curved, smooth,
and orange colour; the segments equal, nearly upright.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, curved inwards at the end. Tips
beardless, two-cleft, adhering together by the sides, a great way out of
the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud club-shaped, furrowed, and glandular at the base.
Shaft thread-shaped, a little longer than the chives. Summit concave at
the top.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from May, till September.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement.

3. The Chives, and Pointal, magnified.

4. The Pointal, and Seed-bud, the Summit separate, magnified.

5. The Seed-bud, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA imbricata.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, exsertis; corollis urceolatis; calycibus
duplicatis, viscosis, imbricatis, coloratis, corollam sub-æquantibus;
foliis ternis, lævibus, truncatis, linearibus.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, erectus, spithamæus; rami et ramuli frequentissimi,
foliosi, erecti.

FOLIA terna, linearia, recta, truncata, plana, lævia, petiolis
brevissimis adpressis.

FLORES in ramulis terminales, sub-terni, umbellati, cernui; pedunculis
longitudine calycis.

CALYX. Perianthium duplicatum, adpressum, imbricatum: foliolis ovatis,
viscosis, incarnatis.

COROLLA urceolata, apice incarnata, laciniis obtusis, minutis, erectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, incurvata. Antheræ muticæ, exsertæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine staminum.
Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Julii in Octobrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Corolla et Stamina.

3. Calyx lente auctus.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, antherâ unâ lente auctâ.

5. Stylus et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips without the blossoms, which are
pitcher-shaped; cup double, clammy, tiled, coloured, and almost the
length of the blossoms; leaves grow by threes, even, appearing cut off
at the point, and linear.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, upright, a span high; the larger and smaller branches are
numerous, covered with leaves, and upright.

LEAVES grow by threes, straight out, appearing cut off at the point,
flat, even, and having their footstalks pressed to the branches.

FLOWERS grow in bunches, generally three together, at the ends of the
smaller branches, hanging downward; footstalks the length of the cup.

EMPALEMENT. Cup double, pressed to the blossom, tiled: the leaves are
egg-shaped, clammy, and flesh-coloured.

BLOSSOM pitcher-shaped, flesh-coloured at the mouth, which has its
segments blunt, small, and upright.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, bent inwards. Tips beardless, and
without the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud nearly round. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of the
chives. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from July till October.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Blossom and Chives.

3. The Empalement magnified.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA incarnata.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris cristatis, subinclusis; corollis subovatis, carneis;
pedunculis longissimis, coloratis; foliis quaternis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS suberectus, pedalis ramosissimus, rami, et ramuli, flexuosi,
divaricato patente.

FOLIA quaterna, obtusa, linearia, glabra, subtus sulcata; petiolis
brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES terminales, racemum densé formantes; pedunculi longissimi,
purpurei, bracteis tribus instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis, carinatis, acuminatis.

COROLLA subovata, cernua, carnea, ore contracto, lævissime quadrisido,
laciniis erectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, receptaculo inserta. Antheræ
cristatæ, sub-inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Julii, in Octobrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with crested tips, nearly within the blossoms, which are almost
egg-shaped, and flesh-coloured; the foot-stalks are very long, and
coloured; the leaves grow by fours.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM nearly upright, a foot high, and very much branched; the larger and
smaller branches grow zigzag, and spread outward.

LEAVES grow by fours, are blunt, linear, smooth, and furrowed
underneath; with short foot-stalks pressed to the branches.

The FLOWERS grow at the end of the smaller branches, forming a close
bunch; the foot-stalks are very long, and purple, having three floral
leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are egg-shaped, keeled, and pointed.

BLOSSOM nearly egg-shaped, bending downward, and flesh-coloured, the
mouth contracted, but slightly cut into four upright segments.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, fixed into the receptacle. Tips
crested, nearly within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel nearly round. Shaft thread-shaped, and without the
blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from July, till October.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and its Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA jasminiflora.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris basi bicornibus, inclusis; stylo exserto; corollis
ampullaceis, sesquipollicaribus, laciniis cordatis, patentibus; floribus
subternis; foliis ternis, trigonis, subulatis, patenti-erectis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS filiformis, erectus; rami simplicissimi, filiformes, longi,
patenti.

FOLIA terna, trigona, acuta, subulata, margine serrata, basi adpressa,
apicem versus patula, sexfariam imbricata.

FLORES terminales, sub-terni, horizontales, umbellati; pedunculi
purpurei, bracteis tribus, ovatis, coloratis, instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis, viscosis, purpureis.

COROLLA viscosa, sesquipollicaris, summa cylindracea, ad basin inflata,
ore arctata; laciniis expansis, sub-ovatis, maximis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria; antheræ basi bicornes, apice
acuminatæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Julii, in Novembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium unum, lente auctum.

2. Calyx, lente auctus.

3. Calyx, et Corolla.

4. Stamina, et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una, lente aucta.

6. Stylus et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH with tips two horned at the base and within the blossom, the shaft
without; blossoms flask-shaped, an inch and a half long, the segments
heart-shaped and spreading; flowers growing by threes mostly; leaves
grow by threes, are three-sided, awl-shaped, upright and spreading.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM thread-shaped and upright; the branches are quite simple, thread
shaped, long, and spreading.

LEAVES grow by threes, are three-sided, sharp, awl-shaped, sawed at the
edge, pressed to the stem at the base, spreading towards the end, and
forming six angles.

FLOWERS terminate the branches generally by threes, grow horizontal, and
in bunches; the foot-stalks are purple, having three oval, coloured
floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup of four leaves, which are egg-shaped, clammy, and
purple.

BLOSSOM, clammy, an inch and a half long, the upper part cylindrical,
swelled at the base, and pinched in at the mouth; the segments
spreading, nearly egg-shaped and very large.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads. Tips two horned at the base, tapered to
the points and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped and
without the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from July, till November.


REFERENCE.

1. A Leaf, magnified.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Empalement, and Blossom.

4. The Chives, and Pointal.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one tip magnified.

6. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA lateralis.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA antheris cristatis, inclulis; corolla purpurea,
urceolato-campanulata, ad basin plana; pedunculis longissimis; floribus
umbellatis, ternminalibus, fecundis, cernuis; foliis quaternis, obtusis,
glaberrimis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, erectus, pedalis; rami sub-simplices, virgati,
filiformes.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, obtusa, sub-trigona, crassiuscula, brevissime
petiolata, petiolis adpressis.

FLORES ad apices ramorum ramulorumque umbellati, cernui, secundi,
purpurei; pedunculi florum triplo longitudine colorati, bracteis tribus
minutis instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis minutis, adpressis, ciliatis,
subulatis.

COROLLA sub-campanulata ad basin plana, purpurea; laciniis limbi
obtusis, suberectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, capillaria, apice incurvata. Antheras cristatæ,
atro-purpureæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, sulcatum, ad basin glandulosum. Stylus
staminibus longior, exsertus. Stigma tetragonum, virescens.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Augusti, in Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx, auctus.

3. Corolla.

4. Stamina, et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

6. Pistillum, lente auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH with crested tips, within the blossom; which is purple, between
bell and pitcher-shaped, flat at the base; foot-stalks very long;
flowers grow in umbels at the end of the branches, point all one way and
hang down; leaves grow by fours, are blunt and very smooth.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, upright, grows a foot high; branches nearly simple, twiggy
and thread-shaped.

LEAVES grow by fours, linear, blunt, almost three-sided, thickish, very
short foot-stalks, which are pressed to the stem.

FLOWERS grow in umbels, at the end of the larger and smaller branches,
nodding, all pointing one way, and are purple; foot-stalks thrice the
length of the flowers, coloured, and three small floral leaves upon
them.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, leaflets small, pressed to the blossom,
fringed and awl-shaped.

BLOSSOM approaching to bell-shape; the lower part flat, and purple; the
segments of the border are blunt and rather upright

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, turned inwards at the upper part. Tips
crested, deep purple, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud turban-shaped, furrowed, glandular at the base. Shaft
longer than the chives, without the blossom. Summit four-cornered and
greenish.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August, till December.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Blossom.

4. The Chives, and Pointal.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one Tip magnified.

6. The Pointal, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA Leea.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, sub-inclusis; corollis costatis, quadratis,
sub-pollicaribus, luteo-aurantiis; quatuor quinqueve pedalis; foliis
senis, maximis, rigidis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS laxus, erectus, scaber, quatuor vel quinque pedalis; rami laxi,
simplices, longi.

FOLIA sena, rigida, obtusa, subtus sulcata, linearia, crassa, petiolis
adpressis.

FLORES in ramulis mediis verticillati, spicam formantes, pedunculis
brevibus, bracteis tribus ad basin calycis instructis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis subulatis, concavis,
longitudine pedunculi.

COROLLA sub-pollicaris, quadrata, costata, luteo-aurantia, laciniis
dentatis, reflexis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, receptaculo inserta; antheræ muticæ,
subinclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen cylindricum, sulcatum; stylus filiformis, exsertus;
stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Augusti in Januarium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus et Stigma lente aucti.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossoms, which are ribbed,
four-sided, not quite an inch long, and of a yellowish-orange colour;
grows four or five feet high; the leaves grow by sixes, are large, and
stiff.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM supple, upright and rough, four or five feet high; the branches are
loose, simple and long.

LEAVES grow by sixes, are harsh, blunt, furrowed underneath, linear, and
thick, having the foot-stalks pressed to the stem.

FLOWERS grow in whorls, about the middle of the smaller branches,
forming a spike, with short foot-stalks, with three floral leaves close
to the cup.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are awl-shaped, concave, and the
length of the foot-stalk.

BLOSSOM near an inch long, four-sided, ribbed, of a yellowish-orange
colour; the segments of the mouth are notched, and bent backward.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, fixed into the receptacle; the tips
beardless, and just within the. blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel cylindrical, and furrowed; shaft thread-shaped, and
without the blossom; summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August till January.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA lutea.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; corollis ovato-acuminatis, luteis;
foliis oppositis, triquetris, adpressis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS laxus, filiformis, gracilis, ad basin ramosus; ramuli conferti.

FOLIA opposita, linearia, adpressa, triquetra, supra concava, subtus
carinata, sulcata, nitida; petiolis brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES plures, conglomerati, subterminales; pedunculi capillares, lutei;
bracteis binis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis, acuminatis, luteis,
glabris.

COROLLA lutea, ovato-acuminata, ore arctata; limbo quadrilobo,
subreflexo.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, corolla dimidio breviora, apice
recurvata, receptaculo inserta. Antheræ muticæ, inclusæ, parvæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen cylindricum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, purpureus,
filamentis duplo longior. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a Septembre, in Maium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx, lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossoms; which are of a pointed
oval shape, and yellow, the leaves grow opposite in pairs, are
three-sided, and pressed to the stem.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM flexible, thread-shaped, and slender, branching to the bottom; the
branches crowded together.

The LEAVES grow opposite in pairs, are linear, pressed to the stem,
three-sided, concave on the upper, and keel-shaped on the under surface,
furrowed, and shining; having very short leaf-stems pressed to the
branches.

FLOWERS are numerous, close together, and nearly terminating the
branches; the foot-stalks are hair-like, and yellow, having two floral
leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, leaflets oval, pointed, yellow, and smooth.

The BLOSSOM yellow, of a pointed oval shape, compressed at the mouth;
having a slightly reflexed, four-lobed border.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, half the length of the blossom, bent
back at the point, and fixed into the receptacle. Tips beardless, within
the blossom, and small.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel cylindrical, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped,
purple, and twice as long as the chives. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from September, till May.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA mammosa.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris aristatis, inclusis; stylo subincluso; floribus
verticillatis, pendulis, ventricoso-cylindricis, supra basin
constrictis, profunde violaceo-purpureis; foliis quaternis, linearibus,
glabris.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS simplex, fruticosus, erectus, sesquipedalis; rami verticillati,
raro ramulosi, erecti.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, glabra, recta; seniora patentia, juniora
erecta, subtus sulcata; petiolis brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES sub-pollicares, in summitate ramorum verticillati, penduli;
pedunculi longissimi, bracteis tribus, minutis, remotis, instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis lato-ovatis., acutis,
marginibus membranaceis, apicibus coloratis, adpressis.

COROLLA ventricoso-cylindrica, apice attenuata, ad basin constricta,
profunde purpurea; laciniis minutis, erectis, obtusis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria. Antheræ aristatæ;, inclusæ,

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum. Stylus filiformis, sub-inclusus. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Julii in Novembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx lente auctus.

2. Calyx et Corolla.

3. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, antherâ unâ lente auctâ.

4. Germen, Stylus, et Stigma, stigmate aucto.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with bearded tips, within the blossom; shaft just within the
blossom; flowers grow in whorls, hanging down, of a swelled cylinder
shape, pinched in at the base, and of a deep blue purple; leaves grow by
fours, are linear, and smooth.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM simple, shrubby, upright, a foot and a half high; branches grow in
whorls, seldom making smaller branches, and upright.

LEAVES grow by fours, linear, smooth, and straight; the older ones
spread out, the younger grow upright, and are furrowed beneath; having
very short foot-stalks, which are pressed to the stem.

FLOWERS are near an inch long, grow in whorls at the top of the
branches, hanging down; foot-stalks very long, having three small floral
leaves at a distance from the cup.

EMPALEMENT. Cup of four leaves, which are of a broad egg-shape, pointed,
having the margins skinny, the ends coloured, and are pressed to the
blossom.

BLOSSOM of a swelled cylinder-shape, tapered at the end, and pinched in
at the base, of a deep purple; the segments of the border are very
small, upright, and blunt.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads. Tips bearded, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud turban-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped, and just within
the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from July till November.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement magnified.

2. The Empalement and Blossom.

3. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one tip magnified.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit, the summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA marifolia.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris aristatis, sub-inclusis, corollis urceoli-formibus,
albidis; foliis ternis, lato-ovatis, pubescentibus, subtus albidis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS erectus, fruticosus, pedalis, ramosissimus; ramuli
frequentissimi, verticillati.

FOLIA terna, patentia, lato-ovata, margine revoluta, subtus albida,
petiolis brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES terminales, umbellati, cernui; pedunculi longi, bracteis tribus
instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum; foliolis spathulatis, seu basi
attenuatis, apicibus ovatis, concavis, ciliatis.

COROLLA albida, urceoli-formis, oris laciniis sub-reflexis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria; antheræ aristatæ, sub-inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen cylindricum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus.
Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Aprili in Julium,


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, antherâ unâ lente auctâ.

5. Stylus et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with bearded tips, just within the blossoms, which are
pitcher-shaped, and white; the leaves grow by threes, of a broad
egg-shape, downy, and white underneath.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM upright, shrubby, grows a foot high, and very branching; the
smaller branches are numerous, and grow in whorls.

LEAVES grow by threes, spreading outward, of a broad egg-shape, rolled
back at the edges., and white beneath, having short foot-stalks pressed
to the branches.

FLOWERS terminate the branches in bunches which hang downward; the
foot-stalks are long, having three floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are spathula-shaped, or tapering to
the base, the tops egg-shaped, concave, and lashed.

BLOSSOM white, pitcher-shaped, having the segments of the mouth slightly
bent back.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads; tips bearded, just within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel cylinder-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped.
Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from April till July.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4 The Chives detached from the Pointal, one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA margaritacea.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris cristatis, inclusis; stylo exserto; corollis globoso
campanulatis; floribus terminalibus, sub-umbellatis; foliis quaternis,
lineari-trigonis, glabris, erectis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS erectus, ramosus; ramuli frequentissimi, erecti, glabri.

FOLIA quaterna, lineari-trigona, erecta, subtus sulcata, glabra;
petiolis brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES terminales, nutantes, sub-umbellati; pedunculi filiformes,
bracteis tribus, linearibus instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis subulatis, carinatis,
sulcatis, lævibus, adpressis.

COROLLA urceolata, alba, calyce paulo longior; laciniæ limbi obtusæ,
erecto-patulæ.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, apice inflexa. Antheræ ovatæ,
brunneæ, cristatæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen globosum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus.
Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Junii, in Septembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx, lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamen unum, lente auctum.

5. Pistillum, lente auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with crested tips, within the blossom; shaft without; blossoms
globularly bell-shaped; flowers terminate the branches in small bunches;
leaves grow by fours, linearly three-sided, smooth and upright.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM upright, and branching; the small branches are numerous, upright,
and smooth.

LEAVES grow by fours, linearly three-sided, upright, furrowed on the
under part and smooth; with very short foot-stalks, pressed to the
branches.

FLOWERS terminate the branches, are a little bent downwards, and grow in
small bunches; the foot-stalks are thread-shaped, with three linear
floral leaves on them.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, the little leaves are awl-shaped, keeled,
furrowed, smooth, and pressed to the blossom.

BLOSSOM pitcher-shaped, white, and a little longer than the cup; the
segments of the border are blunt, upright and spreading.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, bent inwards at the ends. Tips
egg-shaped, brown, crested and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud globular, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped and
without the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from June, till September.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. A Chive, magnified.

5. The Pointal, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA Massonia.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; corollis sub-cylindricis, viscosis,
speciosissimis, tricoloratis; foliis subquaternis, pilis longis
vestitis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, erectus, bipedalis, basi simplicissimus, dein
ramosus, rami suberecti, foliis toti tecti.

FOLIA subquaterna, oblonga, serrata, pilis longis vestita, supra plana,
subtus sulcata, petiolis brevissimis adpressis.

FLORES subterminales, plures, simplice verticillati, cernuo-patenti,
pedunculi pilosi, foliolis tribus subtus instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis lanciolatis, hirsutis,
adpressis, apicibus revolutis.

COROLLA subcylindracea, micans, viscosa, rubra, lutea et viridia
speciosissime colorata, ore arctato, quadrisido.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, longitudine tubi, receptaculo
inserta. Antheræ muticæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen clavatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, subexsertus.
Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Augusti ad Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossom, which are nearly
cylindrical, clammy, most beautiful, and three-coloured; the leaves grow
mostly by fours, and are entirely covered with long hairs.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, upright, grows two feet high, simple at the base, then
branching, the branches nearly upright, and quite covered by the leaves.

LEAVES grow mostly by fours, oblong, sawed, clothed with long hairs,
smooth on the upper, and furrowed on the under part, having very short
leaf-stems pressed to the branches.

FLOWERS are numerous, in single whorls, near the summit of the branches,
bending downward, and spreading, the foot-stalks hairy, with three small
leaves fixed on their under part.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are lance-shaped, hairy, pressed to
the blossom, and rolled back at the point.

BLOSSOM nearly cylindrical, shining, clammy, and most beautifully
coloured with red, yellow, and green, narrow at the mouth, which is
divided into four segments.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, the length of the blossom, fixed into
the receptacle. Tips beardless.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel club-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped,
rather without the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August till December.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA melastoma.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheræ muticæ, exsertæ, attenuata in filamenta plana; corollis
sessilibus, solitariis, luteis, terminalibus; oris laciniis nigris;
calyx duplicatus, heptaphyllus, imbricatus; foliis subulatis, quaternis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS laxus, erectus, bipedalis; rami pauci, simplices; ramuli sparsi,
brevissimi, frequentissimi, foliosi.

FOLIA quaterna, subulata, apice, recurvata, sub-scabrida, rigida;
petiolis brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES sessiles in apicibus ramulorum, solitarii, dependenti; pedunculi
brevissimi.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex; _interius_ tetraphyllum, foliolis concavis,
ovatis, glabris, imbricatis, integris, luteis; _exterius_ triphyllum,
priori brevioribus, consimilibus.

COROLLA conica, lutea, parum curvata, basi quadrifariam sulcata, apice
attenuata; laciniis erectis, obtusis, longissimis, adpressis, nigris.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, plana, linearia. Antheræ muticæ, lineares,
exsertæ, longitudine corollæ, attenuata in filamenta.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum, glabrum, integrum. Stylus exsertus,
filiformis, staminibus paulo longior. Stigma marginatum, virescens.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a Mensi Februarii, in Julium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx.

2. Corolla, et Stamina.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta.

5. Stamen unum, lente auctum.

6. Pistillum, lente auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, without the blossom, tapering into the
threads which are flat; blossoms sitting close to the branches singly,
are yellow, and terminate them; the segments of the mouth are black; the
cup is doubled, of seven leaves and tiled; leaves awl-shaped, growing by
fours.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM weak, upright, grows two feet high; the branches are few, and
simple; the small branches are scattered, very short, numerous, and
covered with leaves.

LEAVES grow by fours, awl-shaped, bent back at the point, roughish and
stiff; foot-stalks very short, and pressed to the stem.

FLOWERS sitting on the ends of the smaller branches are solitary, and
hang down; the foot-stalks are very short.

EMPALEMENT. Cup double; the _inner_ one has four leaves, which are
concave, egg-shaped, smooth, tiled, entire, and yellow; the _outer_
three-leaved, shorter than the former, and like them.

BLOSSOM conical, yellow, slightly curved, having four furrows at the
base, and tapering at the point; the segments of the border grow
upright, are blunt, very long, pressed to the chives, and black.

CHIVES. Eight flat, linear, threads. Tips beardless, linear, without the
blossom, and of its length, tapering into the threads.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped, smooth and entire. Shaft without the
blossom, thread-shaped, a little longer than the chives. Summit
bordered, and greenish.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from February, till July.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement.

2. The Blossom, and Chives.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal.

5. A Chive magnified.

6. The Pointal magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA monadelphia.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, exsertis, attenuatis in filamenta plana.
Corolla conica, sanguinea, oris laciniis erectis, adpressis. Folia
terna.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS erectus, sesquipedalis, scaber, ad basin parum ramosus. Ramuli
sparsi.

FOLIA terna, obtusa, sub-tomentosa, subtus sulcata, petiolis brevissimis
adpressis.

FLORES in ramulis, bini vel terni, terminales, cernui, in medio ramorum
racemum formantes speciosissimum; pedunculis brevibus, bracteis nullis.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex, coloratum; exterius triphyllum, foliolis
lato-ovatis, apicibus virescentibus; interius tetraphyllum, foliolis
latioribus majoribus.

COROLLA conica, sub-pollicaris, glabra, sanguinea; oris laciniis
erectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo plana, corolla multoties longiora, receptaculo
inserta; antheris muticis, exsertis, attenuatis in filamenta.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum, tenuissime sulcatum. Stylus filiformis. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Augusti in Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; antherâ unâ lente auctâ.

5. Stylus et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips without the blossoms, and tapering into
filaments, which are flat. The blossom is conical, of a blood colour,
having the segments of the mouth upright, and pressed to the threads.
The leaves grow by threes.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM upright, a foot and a half high, rough, branching but little at the
base. The smaller branches are scattered.

LEAVES grow by threes, blunt-ended, rather downy, channelled underneath,
having very short foot-stalks pressed to the branches.

FLOWERS grow by twos and threes at the end of the smaller branches,
hanging down, forming a beautiful spike near the middle of the larger
branches. The foot-stalks are short, without floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup double, and coloured; the outer three-leaved, the leaves
of a broad oval-shape, the ends greenish: the inner is four-leaved,
broader and larger than the former.

BLOSSOM cone-shaped, near an inch long, smooth, deep red; the segments
of the mouth upright.

CHIVES. Eight flat threads, much longer than the blossom, fixed into the
receptacle; the tips beardless, without the blossom, and tapering into
the filaments.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel egg-shaped, and slightly furrowed. Shaft
thread-shaped. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August till December.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA mucosa.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris aristatis, inclusis; corollis globosis, mucosis,
fasciculatis, cernuo-patentibus, terminalibus; foliis quaternis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, tripedalis, ad basin fere ramosus, ramis longis,
virgatis, flexuosis.

FOLIA quaterna, subtriangularia, linearia, apice recurvata, obtusa,
glaberrima, subtus sulcata; brevissimis petiolis instructa.

FLORES plures, terminales, fasciculati, cernuo-patentes, mucosi,
purpurei fulgenti; pedunculis longis, purpureis, 2 seu 3 bracteis,
instructis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis, obtusis, erectis,
corolla dimidio brevioribus.

COROLLA globosa, limbo quadrilobo, laciniis semiorbiculatis, æqualibus,
erectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, corolla breviora, receptaculo
inserta. Antheræ aristatæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum. Stylus filamentis crassior, erectus.
Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Augusti ad Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx et Bractea lente aucta.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with bearded tips, within the blossoms; which are globe-shaped,
clammy, and in bunches, bending downward, spreading, and terminating the
branches; leaves growing by fours.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows three feet high, branched nearly to the bottom, with
long, slender, waving branches.

LEAVES growing by fours, nearly triangular, linear, bent back at the
point, blunt, smooth, and furrowed underneath; leaf-stems very short.

FLOWERS several, terminating the branches in bunches, bending downward
and spreading, of a brilliant purple, and clammy; with very long
foot-stalks, which are furnished with 2 or 3 floral-leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are egg-shaped, blunt, upright, and
half the length of the blossom.

BLOSSOM globe-shaped, with a four-lobed border, each division forming a
half-round, equal, and upright.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, shorter than the blossom, and fixed in
the receptacle. Tips bearded, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel roundish. Shaft thicker than the threads, and
upright. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

In bloom from August till December.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement with the Blossom.

2. The Empalement and Floral-leaves magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA Muscari.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; corollis oblongo-ovatis, obtuse
tetragonis; foliis quaternis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, sesquipedalis, teres, basi simplicissimus, dein
ramosus.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, acuta, erecto-patentia, glaberrima, nitida,
dilute viridia, petiolis brevissimis ramis adpressis.

FLORES luteoli, suaviter olentes, sæpius quaterni, terminales;
pedunculis brevissimis.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex; _interius_ tetraphyllum, foliolis erectis,
ovatis, carinatis; _exterius_ triphyllum, priori incumbens.

COROLLA oblongo-ovata, obtuse tetragona, summa parte arctata, limbo
quadrilobo, laciniis æqualibus revolutis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, stylo subæqualia, apice torto,
receptaculo inserta. Antheræ muticæ, inclusæ, bifidæ, dorsales.

PISTILLUM. Germen obovatum, fulcatum sulcis octo. Stylus linearis,
erectus, corollas sub-æqualis. Stigma subtetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a Martio ad Julium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips within the blossom, which is
oblong-egg-shaped, and bluntly four-edged; leaves growing by fours.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows a foot and a half high, cylindrical, undivided at
the base, afterwards branching.

LEAVES growing by fours, linear, pointed, between upright and spreading,
smooth and shining, of a light green, with short leaf-stems pressed to
the branches.

FLOWERS yellowish, sweet-scented, mostly four together, terminating the
branches; having very short footstalks.

EMPALEMENT. Cup double; the _inner_ one has four leaves, which are
erect, ovate, and keel-shaped; the _outer_ has three leaves, and rests
on the former.

The BLOSSOM oblong-egg-shaped, bluntly four-edged, contracted at the
mouth, which is terminated by a four-lobed border, whose segments are
equal, and rolled back.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, nearly of a length with the pointal,
crooked at their upper part, and fixed in the receptacle. Tips
beardless, within the blossom, cleft, and fixed to the threads at their
back.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel inversely egg-shaped, furrowed with eight channels.
Shaft linear, erect, nearly of a length with the blossom. Summit nearly
four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

In bloom from March till July.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA nigrita.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, exsertis, atris; flores subterni, albi; corolla
campanulata, laciniis revolutis, maximis; foliis ternis, nitidis,
patentibus.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, erectus, pedalis; rami et ramuli frequentissimi,
sub-erecti, virgati, sub-tomentosi.

FOLIA terna, nitida, glabra, sub-triquetra, obtusa, patentia, crassa;
petiolis adpressis.

FLORES in apicibus ramulorum terminales, sub-terni; pedunculi albi;
bracteæ ovatæ, acutæ, albæ, calyci approximatæ, imbricatæ, calyciformes.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis, ovatis, acutis, albis, laxis,
longitudine fere corollæ.

COROLLA campanulata, albida; laciniis oris revolutis, majoribus.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, capillaria, receptaculo inserta. Antherae
muticæ, exsertæ, atræ.

PISTILLUM. Germen sub-ovatum, leviter sulcatum, ad basin glandulosum.
Stylus filiformis, staminibus paulo longior. Stigma peltatum,
sub-tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Aprili, in Julium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx, lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, Anthera una lente aucta.

5. Pistillum, auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, without the blossom, and black; flowers grow
mostly by threes, and white; blossom bell-shaped; segments rolled back,
and very large; leaves grow by threes, shining, and spreading.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, upright, grows a foot high; the larger and smaller
branches are numerous, nearly upright, twiggy, and a little downy.

LEAVES grow by threes, shine, smooth, nearly three-sided, blunt,
spreading, and thick; foot-stalks pressed to the stem.

FLOWERS grow from the ends of the small branches, mostly by threes; with
white foot-stalks; floral leaves egg-shaped, sharp-ended, white, close
to the cup, tiled, and like those of the cup.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, leaflets egg-shaped, pointed, white, loose,
nearly the length of the blossom.

BLOSSOM bell-shaped, white; the segments of the mouth are rolled back,
and larger than the tube.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads fixed into the receptacle. Tips
beardless, without the blossom, and black.

POINTAL. Seed-bud nearly egg-shaped, slightly furrowed, glandular at the
base. Shaft thread-shaped, a little longer than the chives. Summit
shield-shaped, almost four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from April, till July.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one Tip magnified.

5. The Pointal, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA obliqua.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris basi bicornibus, inclusis; stylo sub-exserto; corollis
ovatis, laciniis ovalibus, maximis, erectis; floribus umbellatis,
terminalibus, pedunculis pollicaribus; foliis oblique sparsis,
truncatis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, pedalis; rami simplices, longi, filiformes.

FOLIA sparsa, sæpe vero quaterna, linearia, arcuata, margine
glanduloso-denticulata, glabra, truncata, petiolis tenuissimis.

FLORES numerosi, sub apice ramorum umbellati; pedunculi flore triplo
longiores, colorati, viscidi, bracteis tribus linearibus instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum; foliolis minutis, linearibus, viscosis,
adpressis.

COROLLA sub-globosa, purpurea, magnitudine pisi; laciniis limbi maximis,
erectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, plana, linearia, apice incurvata; antheræ ad
basin bicornutæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen tiarae-forme, sulcatum; glandulæ octo ad basin
germinis; stylus cylindricus, sub-exsertus; stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Augusti in Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium lente auctum.

2. Flos.

3. Calyx lente auctus.

4. Stamina et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, lente aucta.

6. Pistillum lente auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with tips two-horned at the base, and within the blossom; the
shaft just without; blossoms egg-shaped, the segments of the border
oval, very large, and upright; flowers grow in bunches, and terminate
the branches; the footstalks an inch long; the leaves grow scattered
obliquely, appearing cut off at the ends.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows a foot high; the branches simple, long, and
thread-shaped.

LEAVES grow scattered, sometimes by fours, linear, arched, appearing
toothed by small glands at the edge, smooth, seeming cut off at the
ends, and with very slender footstalks.

FLOWERS numerous, growing in umbels at the end of the branches; the
footstalks thrice the length of the flower, coloured, clammy, and having
three linear floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved; the leaflets very small, linear, clammy,
and pressed to the blossom.

BLOSSOM almost globular, purple, the size of a pea; the segments of the
border very large and upright.

CHIVES. Eight flat threads, linear, bent inward at the points; tips
two-horned at the base, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud turban-shaped and furrowed; eight glands at the base
of the seed-bud; shaft cylindrical, and just without the blossom; summit
four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August till December.


REFERENCE.

1. A Leaf magnified.

2. A Flower.

3. The Empalement magnified.

4. The Chives and Pointal.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal, magnified.

6. The Pointal magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA Pattersonia.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris aristatis, inclusis; foliis quaternis, floribus
axillaribus, e foliis emergentibus, cylindricis, luteis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, bipedalis, erectus, basi ramosus, dein
simplicissimus, pyramidatus, ramulis brevissimis vestitus.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, incurvata, acuta, glabra, subtus sulcata,
petiolis brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES plures, axillares, in medio cauli e foliis recti emergentes,
pedunculis fere nullis.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex, _exterius_ triphyllum, foliolis ovatis,
acuminatis, _interius_ tetraphyllum, foliolis subulatis, apice
recurvatis.

COROLLA cylindrica, subpollicaria, glabra, lutea, ore arctato,
quadrisido limbo reflexo.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, corollæ subæqualia, receptaculo
inserta. Antheris aristatis.

PISTILLUM. Germen campanulatum. Stylus filiformis, tortuosus, exsertus.
Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a Martio ad Augustum.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with bearded tips, within the blossom; leaves growing by fours,
the flowers grow close to the stem, peeping out from amongst the leaves,
are cylindrical, and yellow.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, two feet high, upright, branching out at the base, then
forming a simple, pyramidal spike, covered by very short branches.

LEAVES grow by fours, linear, curved, sharp-pointed, and smooth,
furrowed underneath, having short leaf-stems pressed to the branches.

FLOWERS are numerous, growing close to, and about the middle of the
stem, peeping straight out from amongst the leaves, with scarce any
footstalks.

EMPALEMENT. Cup, double the _outer_ three-leaved, which are oval, and
pointed, the _inner_ four-leaved, being awl-shaped, and bent back at the
point.

BLOSSOM cylindrical, near an inch long, smooth, yellow, and narrow at
the mouth, having a four-lobed, reflexed border.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, nearly the length of the blossom, fixed
into the receptacle. Tips bearded.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel bell-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped, twisted, and
without the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from March till August.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA Petiveriana.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, exsertis, longissimis; corollis clavatis,
pollicaribus, luteis; calyce imbricato, foliis ternis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS strictissimus, rigidus, parum ramosus; ramulis brevibus,
frequentissimis.

FOLIA terna, linearia, obtusa, in apicibus ramulorum fasciculata,
petiolis adpressis.

FLORES in medio ramorum, ramulis ultimis terminales, bini, vel terni,
recurvi; pedunculi brevissimi, bracteis tribus calyciformibus.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex, imbricatum, interius tetraphyllum, exterius
triphyllum, foliolis ovatis, acuminatis, concavis, luteis, glabris.

COROLLA clavata, curvata, lutea, pollicaris, glabra, ad basin grossa,
quadrifida; oris laciniis incurvis, adpressis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, receptaculo inserta; antheræ muticæ,
exsertæ, longissimæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus filiformis. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Aprili in Junium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Corolla.

3. Calyx lente auctus.

4. Stamina et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diduct; antherâ unâ lente auctâ.

6. Stylus et Stigma lente aucti.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, without the blossom, and very long; the
blossom is club-shaped, an inch long, and yellow; the cup is tiled; the
leaves grow by threes.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM very upright, harsh, very little branched; the smaller branches are
short, and numerous.

LEAVES grow by threes, are linear, blunt, and are bundled together at
the end of the small branches; the foot-stalks grow close to the
branches.

FLOWERS terminate the smaller branches about the middle of the larger
ones, by twos and threes, and are bent inwards; the foot-stalks are very
short, having three floral leaves, which seem to form part of the cup.

EMPALEMENT. Cup double, and tiled, the inner four-leaved, the outer
three-leaved, which are oval, pointed, hollow, smooth, and yellow.

BLOSSOM club-shaped, curved, yellow, smooth, an inch long, swelled at
the base, which is divided into four; the segments of the mouth are bent
inwards, and pressed to the filaments.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads fixed into the receptacle; tips
beardless, very long, and without the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel egg-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped. Summit
four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from April till June.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Blossom.

3. The Empalement magnified.

4. The Chives and Pointal.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

6. The Shaft and Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA physodes.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris cristatis, inclusis; corollis ovatis, inflatis, glabris,
viscosis, crystallinis, albis; foliis quaternis, marginibus glandulosis,
obtusis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, bipedalis, erectus; rami erecti, ramulosi.

FOLIA quaterna, obtusa, lato-linearia, carinata, curvata, margine
glandulosa, viscosa, patentia.

FLORES umbellati, sub-quaterni, cernui, ad apices ramulorum; pedunculi
mediocres, bracteis minutis, distantibus.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis, brevissimis,
adpressis, viscosis.

COROLLA ovata, alba, crystallina, magnitudine pisi; laciniis acuminatis,
erectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria; antheræ cristatæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen globosum, sulcatum. Stylus sub-inclusus. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Februario in Julium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium lente auctum.

2. Calyx et Corolla.

3. Calyx lente auctus.

4. Stamina et Pistillum.

5. Stamen lente auctum.

6. Pistillum lente auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with crested tips within the blossoms, which are egg-shaped,
swelled out, smooth, clammy, like crystal, and white; leaves grow by
fours, have glandular edges, and are blunt-ended.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows two feet high, upright; the branches grow upright,
and have numerous little branches.

LEAVES grow by fours, are blunt, broadly linear, keeled, curved, the
edges glandular, clammy, and spreading.

FLOWERS grow in umbels of mostly four together, hanging down from the
ends of the smaller branches; the footstalks of the length of the
blossoms, with floral leaves that are very small, and placed at a
distance from the blossom.

EMPALEMENT. Cup of four leaves, which are egg-shaped, very short,
pressed to the blossom, and clammy.

BLOSSOM egg-shaped, white, and like crystal, the size of a pea; segments
of the border tapering and upright.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads; tips crested, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud globular, and furrowed. Shaft just within the blossom.
Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from February till July.


REFERENCE.

1. A Leaf magnified.

2. The Empalement and Blossom.

3. The Empalement magnified.

4. The Chives and Pointal.

5. A Chive magnified.

6. The Pointal magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA pinea.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; corollis tubuloso-clavatis,
sub-albidis; floribus axillaribus, verticillatis, pollicaribus; foliis,
sub-senis, linearibus glabris, rigidis, longis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS erectus, plus quam bipedalis, robustus; rami verticillati,
erecto-patentes, raro ramulosi, cauli similes.

FOLIA sena, linearia, glabra, patentia, longissima, petiolis adpressis.

FLORES in medio ramorum verticillati, horizontales, pollicares;
pedunculi brevissimi, bracteis tribus instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis subulatis, ad basin
latioribus, glabris, adpressis.

COROLLA tubuloso-clavata, obtusa, sub-albida; laciniis reflexis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, corolla breviora. Antheræ muticæ,
inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, sulcatum; apice pilosum, ad basin
glandulosum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus. Stigma peltatum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Augusti, in Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium, lente auctum.

2. Calyx et Corolla.

3. Calyx, auctus.

4. Stamina, et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

6. Pistillum, stigma auctum.

7. Germen, auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH with beardless tips, within the blossoms, which are tubularly
club-shaped, and nearly white; flowers grow from the lower part of the
leaves close to the stem in whorls, are an inch long; leaves grow mostly
by sixes, are linear and smooth, stiff, and long.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM upright, grows more than two feet high and very stout; the branches
grow in whorls, spreading and upright, seldom breaking into smaller
branches, and like the stem.

LEAVES grow by sixes, are linear, smooth, spread outward, and very long,
the foot-stalks pressed to the stem.

FLOWERS grow in whorls about the middle of the branches, horizontal, and
an inch in length; the foot-stalks very short, with three floral leaves
on them.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, the leaflets are awl-shaped, broadest at
the base, smooth, and pressed to the blossom.

BLOSSOM tubularly club-shaped, blunt ended, and nearly white; the
segments of the border are reflexed.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads shorter than the blossom. Tips beardless
and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud turban-shaped and furrowed; hairy on the upper part,
and glandular at the base. Shaft thread-shaped, and without the blossom.
Summit shield-shaped.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August, till December,


REFERENCE.

1. A Leaf, magnified.

2. The Empalement, and Blossom.

3. The Empalement, magnified.

4. The Chives, and Pointal, magnified.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal, a Tip magnified.

6. The Pointal, the Summit magnified.

7. The Seed-bud, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA Plukenetia nana.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA antheris muticis, longissimis, exsertis; floribus solitariis,
cernuis, bracteis remotis; corolla sub cylindrica, sub-truncata,
atro-purpurea; oris laciniis minutis, erectis; calycibus simplicibus;
foliis ternis, confertis, inflexis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS sub-pedalis, erectus, robustus; rami verticillati, patenti;
ramuli frequentissimi, sub-erecti.

FOLIA terna, linearia, glabra, arcuata, inflexa, subtus sulcata;
petiolis ferè nullis.

FLORES in medio ramorum ex axillis foliorum verticillati, solitarii;
pedunculi longissimi, bracteis minutis, remotis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis glabris, carinatis, ovatis,
acutis, coloratis, adpressis.

COROLLA sub-cylindrica, sub-truncata, glabra, atro-purpurea; laciniis
limbi obtusis, obsoletis, viridibus, erectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, plana, longitudine corollæ. Antheræ muticæ,
exsertæ, filamentorum longitudine, attenuata in filamenta.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum, glabrum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus,
staminibus paulo longior. Stigma obsolete tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Junii, in Novembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx, lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma, Stigma auctum.

6. Germen auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH with beardless tips, very long, and without the blossom; flowers
grow solitary, hanging down, with the floral leaves at a distance;
blossom nearly cylindrical, appearing nearly as if cut off at the mouth,
of a deep purple; the segments of the mouth are small, and upright; the
cups simple; leaves grow by threes, crowded together, and turned
inwards.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM grows nearly a foot high, upright, and sturdy; the branches grow in
whorls, spreading; the smaller branches are numerous, and nearly
upright.

LEAVES grow by threes, linear, smooth, bent like a bow, turned inward,
and furrowed beneath; scarce any foot-stalks.

FLOWERS grow in the middle of the branches, from the base of the leaves
in whorls, and singly; the foot-stalks the length of the blossoms,
having very small floral leaves at a distance from the cup.

EMPALEMENT. Cup three-leaved, leaflets smooth, keeled, egg-shaped,
pointed, coloured, and pressed to the blossom.

BLOSSOM nearly cylindrical, appearing almost as if cut off at the end,
smooth, and of a deep purple; the segments of the border blunt, very
small, green, and upright.

CHIVES. Eight flat threads, the length of the blossom. Tips beardless,
without the blossom, the length of the threads, and tapered into them.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped, and smooth. Shaft thread-shaped, without
the blossom, and a little longer than the chives. Summit slightly
four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from the month of June, till November.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one Tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and Summit, the Summit magnified.

6. The Seed-bud, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA pubescens.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris aristatis, inclusis; stylo sub-exserto; corollis ovatis,
pubescentibus; foliis quaternis, arcuatis, incurvatis, hirtis; caule
piloso.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, ramosus, pilosus; rami et ramuli pilosi, filiformes,
virgati.

FOLIA quaterna, sæpe terna, obtusa, villosa, incurva, arcuata, subtus
sulcata; petiolis brevissimis adpressis.

FLORES in ramulis terminales, umbellati, bini, terni, vel plures,
copiosi, purpurei; pedunculi capillares, bracteis tribus, hirsutis,
instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis pilosis, rufescentibus,
subulatis, apicibus coloratis, obtusis.

COROLLA, ovata, obtusa, villosa; oris laciniis minutis, erectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria. Antheræ aristatæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum, ad basin glandulosum. Stylus filiformis,
purpureus. Stigma ad basin peltatum, apice tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Augusti, in Februarium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium, auctum.

2. Calyx, et Corolla.

3. Calyx, auctus.

4. Stamina et Pistillum.

5. Stamina, lente aucta.

6. Germen, Stylus et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with bearded tips, within the blossom; shaft just without;
blossoms egg-shaped and downy; leaves grow by fours, bowed, turned
inwards, and hairy; stem hairy.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, branching and hairy; the large and small branches are
hairy; thread-shaped, and twiggy.

LEAVES grow by fours, often by threes, blunt, hairy, turned inwards,
bowed, and furrowed beneath; having very short foot-stalks pressed to
the stem.

FLOWERS terminate the small branches in umbels of two, three, or more,
are very abundant, and purple; foot-stalks are hair-like, having three
hairy floral-leaves on them.

EMPALEMENT. Cup of four leaves, which are hairy, rough, awl-shaped,
coloured at the ends, and blunt.

BLOSSOM egg-shaped, blunt, and hairy; the segments of the mouth are
small and upright.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads. Tips bearded, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped and glandular at the base. Shaft
thread-shaped and purple. Summit shield-shaped at the base, and
four-cornered at the top.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August, till February.


REFERENCE.

1. A leaf, magnified.

2. The Empalement, and Blossom.

3. The Empalement, magnified.

4. The Chives, and Pointal.

5. The Chives, magnified.

6. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and its Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA pulchella.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; flores sub-globosi, incarnati,
axillares, paniculati; caulis filiformis, flexuosus; folia terna,
trigona, sexfariam imbricata.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS flexuosus, pedalis, glaber; rami flexuosi, sub-simplices,
filiformes, longi.

FOLIA terna, trigona, glabra, obtusa, sexfariam imbricata, sub-erecta;
petiolis brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES in summis ramulis paniculati, axillares; pedunculi longissimi,
bracteis tribus, minutis, remotis, instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ciliatis, concavis, adpressis,
ovatis.

COROLLA sub-globosa, parva, incarnata, laciniis minutis, erectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, receptaculo inserta. Antheræ muticæ,
inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen globosum. Stylus cylindricus, inclusus. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Augusti, in Februarium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium unum, lente auctum.

2. Corolla, et Calyx.

3. Calyx, lente auctus.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta.

5. Stamen unum lente auctum.

6. Germen, Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossom; the flowers nearly
globular, flesh-coloured, and grow from the lower part of the leaves,
close to the branches, forming a loose spike; stem thread-shaped,
growing zig-zagged; leaves grow by threes, three-sided, tiled, and
forming six edges.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM grows zig-zagged, a foot high, and smooth; branches like the stem,
grow nearly simple, thread-shaped, and long.

LEAVES grow by threes, three-sided, smooth, blunt, forming six edges,
and almost upright; the foot-stalks are very short, and pressed to the
branches.

FLOWERS grow in loose spikes, near the ends of the small branches from
the lower part of the leaves; the foot-stalks very long, having three
small floral leaves near the lower part.

EMPALEMENT. Cup of four leaves, which are fringed, concave, pressed to
the blossom, and egg-shaped.

BLOSSOM, almost globular, small, and flesh-coloured; the segments small,
and upright.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, fixed into the receptacle. Tips
beardless, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud globular. Shaft cylindrical, and within the blossom.
Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August, till February.


REFERENCE.

1. A Leaf, magnified.

2. The Blossom, and Empalement.

3. The Empalement, magnified.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal.

5. A Chive, magnified.

6. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA purpurea.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, exsertis; corollis verticillatis, tubulosis, a
basi incurvata, sensim ampliatis; foliis subsenis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, erectus, bipedalis, pubescens, basi simplicissimus,
dein verticillatim ramosus, ramis simplicibus, adscendentibus.

FOLIA subsena, linearia, recurvato patentia, supra plana, subtus
revoluta, acuta, rigida, brevissimis adpressis petiolis.

FLORES verticillati, subterminales, dilute purpurei, pedunculis
brevissimis instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis erectis, ovato-oblongis,
acuminatis; bracteis binis adpressis.

COROLLA tubulosa, basi incurvata, sensim versus apicem dilatata; ore
quadrilobo æquali patente.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, receptaculo inserta. Antheræ muticæ,
exsertæ, bipartitæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum. Stylus filiformis, filamentis longior.
Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Julii ad Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx et Bractea lente aucta.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, without the blossoms; which grow in whorls,
are tubular, gradually widening from an incurved base; leaves growing
mostly by sixes.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, upright, grows two feet high, downy, quite intire at the
base, then throws out a number of whorled, simple, ascending branches.

LEAVES growing generally in sixes, linear, bent backward and spreading,
plain on their upper, and rolled back on their under, surface,
sharp-pointed, inflexible, with short leaf-stalks pressed closely to the
stem.

FLOWERS grow in whorls, nearly at the top of the branches, of a fine
light purple, and furnished with very short foot-stalks.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are of an oblong-oval shape, upright,
and pointed; with two floral-leaves close to it.

BLOSSOM tubular, with an incurved base, gradually widening towards the
mouth, which is cut into four equal, spreading lobes.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, fixed in the receptacle. Tips
beardless, without the blossom, and deeply divided.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel turban-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped, longer than the
threads. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

In bloom from July till December.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement with the Blossom.

2. The Empalement and Floral-leaves magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA pyramidalis.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; floribus umbellatis, sub-quaternis;
corolla pyramidata, carnea, laciniis maximis, erectis; foliis
sub-quaternis, linearibus, pilosis, obtusis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, ramosus, flexilis; ramuli frequentissimi,
verticillati, sub-quaterni, brevi, cernui.

FOLIA sub-quaterna, linearia, pilosa, tenuia, subtus sulcata; petiolis
brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES in apicibus ramulorum umbellati, sub-quaterni; pedunculi recti,
colorati, bracteis minutis, remotis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis, subulatis, adpressis.

COROLLA campanulato-infundibuliformis, carnea; laciniis limbi acutis,
maximis, semiovatis, apicibus parum patulis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria. Antheræ muticæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen sub-globosum, apice octo-partitum, compressum. Stylus
filiformis, erectus, subexsertus. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Septembris, in Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx, lente auctus.

3. Corolla.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta.

5. Anthera una lente aucta.

6. Pistillum, lente auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossom; flowers grow in umbels
mostly of four; blossom pyramid-shaped and flesh coloured, the segments
very large, and upright; leaves grow generally by fours, linear, hairy
and blunt ended.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, branching and flexible; small branches are numerous, grow
in whorls, mostly by fours, short and hanging down.

LEAVES grow most frequently by fours, are linear, hairy, thin and
furrowed beneath; foot-stalks very short and pressed to the stem.

FLOWERS grow at the ends of the small branches in bunches, generally of
four; the foot-stalks grow straight, are coloured, having the floral
leaves at a distance from the blossom.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, leaflets awl-shaped, and pressed to the
blossom.

BLOSSOM between bell and funnel-shaped, and flesh-coloured; the segments
of the border are pointed, very large, half egg-shaped, with the ends a
little spreading.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads. Tips beardless, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud nearly globular, eight divisions at the top and
flattened. Shaft thread-shaped, upright and just without the blossom.
Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from September, till December.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Blossom.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal.

5. A Tip, magnified.

6. The Pointal and Seed-bud, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA radiata.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; stylo exserto; floribus
horizontaliter-verticillatis, terminalibus; corollis sub-cylindricis,
pollicaribus, laciniis revolutis; foliis quaternis, glabris, patentibus.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, erectus, sub-pedalis, ramosus; rami sub-simplices,
patento-erecti, glabri.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, patentia, subtus sulcata, supra plana, glabra;
petiolis adpressis.

FLORES in ramulorum apice verticillati, horizontaliter siti; pedunculi
foliorum longitudine, bracteis tribus, subulatis, instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis subulatis, adpressis.

COROLLA subcylindrica, calyce triplo longior; oris laciniis revolutis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria. Antheræ muticæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen clavatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, exfertus.
Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Augusti, in Novembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Flos.

2. Calyx, lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossom; shaft without; flowers
terminate the branches in horizontal whorls; blossoms nearly
cylindrical, an inch long, with the segments of the border rolled back;
leaves grow by fours, smooth and spreading.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, upright, grows near a foot high, and branching; the
branches nearly simple, spreading upright and smooth.

LEAVES grow by fours, linear, spreading, furrowed on the under part,
flat on the upper part and smooth; the foot-stalks pressed to the
branches.

FLOWERS grow in whorls at the ends of the smaller branches, standing
horizontally; the foot-stalks the length of the leaves, having three
awl-shaped floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, the leaflets are awl-shaped, and pressed to
the blossom.

BLOSSOM almost cylinder-shaped, thrice the length of the cup; the
segments of the mouth are rolled back.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads. Tips beardless, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud club-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped and
without the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August, till November.


REFERENCE.

1. The Flower.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Shaft and Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA ramentacea.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris cristatis, inclusis; corollis globosis, umbellis
confertis, rubro-purpureis, pedunculis longissimis, coloratis; foliis
quaternis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS erectus, spithamæus, ramosissimus, rami et ramuli filiformes,
divaricato-patentes.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, subtus sulcata, glabra, acuminata.

FLORES plures, terminales, umbellati, conferti; pedunculi purpurei,
longissimi, capillares, bracteis tribus instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis subulatis, coloratis.

COROLLA globosa, rubro-purpurea, ore contracto, laciniis minutis,
reflexis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, receptaculo inserta; Antheris
cristatis, inclusis.

PISTILLUM. Germen globosum, sulcatum; Stylus filiformis sub-exsertus.
Stigma tetragonum, pubescens.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Augusti in Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, whose tips are crested, and within the blossoms, which are
globe-shaped, growing in close bunches, of a reddish-purple colour,
having very long foot-stalks coloured; the leaves grow by fours.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM upright, a span high, very much branched; the larger and smaller
branches are thread-shaped, and spread into various directions.

LEAVES grow by fours, are linear, furrowed, underneath, smooth, and
pointed.

The FLOWERS are numerous, terminating the branches in close bunches; the
foot-stalks are purple, very long, hair-like, and have three floral
leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are awl-shaped, and coloured.

BLOSSOM globe-shaped, of a reddish purple, the mouth contracted, the
segments of which are very small, and bent back.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads fixed into the receptacle; the tips
crested, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel globe-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped,
just without the blossom. Summit four-cornered, and downy.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August till December.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and its Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA retorta.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; foliis quaternis, retortis, apice
setaceis, margine ciliatis; floribus umbellatis, viscosis, carneis,
ampullaceis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, pedalis, erectus, ramosus; rami flexuosi, filiformes.

FOLIA quaterna, retorta, seta terminali aristata, margine ciliata,
glabra, supra plana, subtus sulcata; petioli brevissimi, adpressi.

FLORES plures, subterminales, sæpe quatuor, verticillati, viscosi;
pedunculi longi, bracteis tribus instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis aristatis, apice ciliatis,
subovatis, viscosis, adpressis.

COROLLA, basi inflata, apice attenuata, ima parte carnea, summa saturate
purpurea, ore arctata, laciniis ovatis, reflexis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, receptaculo inserta. Antheræ
inclusæ, villoso-muticæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen clavatum; stylus exsertus, purpureus; stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Julii, in Octobrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium unum lente auctum.

2. Calyx, et Corolla.

3. Calyx, lente auctus.

4. Stamina, et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

6. Stylus, et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossom; the leaves grow by
fours, are rolled back, having bristles at their points, and fringed at
their edges; the flowers grow in bunches, are clammy, flesh coloured,
and flask-shaped.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows about a foot high, and upright; the branches are
crooked, and thread-shaped.

The LEAVES grow by fours, are rolled back, terminating with an awn-like
bristle, fringed at the edges, smooth, flat on the upper and furrowed on
the under part, having short foot-stalks pressed to the branches.

The FLOWERS are numerous, nearly terminal, mostly by fours, in whorls,
and clammy; the foot-stalks are long, having three floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are each terminated by a bristle, the
ends fringed, nearly oval, clammy, and pressed to the blossom.

The BLOSSOM is swelled out at the base, and tapers to the point, the
lower part is of a flesh colour, the upper deep purple, straightened at
the mouth, whose segments are egg-shaped, and bent back.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads fixed into the receptacle. The tips are
within the blossom, beardless, and covered with hairs.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel club-shaped; shaft without the blossom, and purple;
summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from July, till October.


REFERENCE.

1. One leaf magnified.

2. The Empalement, and Blossom.

3. The Empalement magnified.

4. The Chives and Pointal.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

6. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA Sebana _aurantia_.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, exsertis, longissimis; corolla clavata,
incurvata, aurantia; laciniis obtusis, incurvis; floribus ternis,
terminalibus; calyx duplex, imbricatus; foliis ternis, arcuatis,
reflexis; rami toti tecti ramulis brevissimis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS robustus, erectus, pedalis; rami pauci, tecti ramulis confertis,
brevissimis.

FOLIA terna, linearia, arcuata, conferta, subtrigona, reflexa, apice
acuta, brevissime petiolata.

FLORES terni in apice ramulorum dependenti; pedunculi brevissimi, nudi.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex, _exterius_ triphyllum, foliolis, lato-ovatis,
membranaceis, adpressis, imbricatis; _interius_ tetraphyllum, foliolis
majoribus.

COROLLA clavata, incurvata, aurea, calyce duplo longior; laciniis limbi
obtusis, incurvis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo linearia, plana. Antheræ muticæ, exsertæ,
longissimæ, lineares, attenuata in filamenta.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovale, apice truncatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis,
staminibus paulo longior. Stigma obsolete tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Julii, in Novembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx auctus.

2. Flos.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta.

5. Anthera una, lente aucta.

6. Stigma, auctum.

7. Germen, auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, without the blossom, and very long; blossom
club-shaped, turned inwards and orange coloured; segments blunt, turned
inwards; flowers grow by threes at the ends of the branches; cup double,
tiled; leaves grow by threes, are curved, and reflexed; the branches are
quite covered with little branches.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM sturdy, upright, grows a foot high; branches few, covered by little
branches which are crowded together.

LEAVES grow by threes, linear, arched, crowded, nearly three-sided,
reflexed, sharp-pointed, very small foot-stalks.

FLOWERS grow by threes at the end of the small branches, hanging down;
very short, naked, foot-stalks.

EMPALEMENT. Cup double, _the outer_ three-leaved, leaflets broad
egg-shaped and skinny, pressed to the stem, tiled; _the inner_
four-leaved, with larger leaflets.

BLOSSOM club-shaped, turned inwards, orange colour, and twice the length
of the cup; the segments of the mouth blunt and turned inwards.

CHIVES. Eight linear, flat threads; tips beardless, without the blossom,
very long, linear, and tapered into the threads.

POINTAL. Seed-bud oval, appearing cut off at the end and furrowed. Shaft
thread-shaped, a little longer than the chives. Summit slightly
four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from July, till November.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, magnified.

2. A Flower.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal.

5. A Tip, magnified.

6. The Summit, magnified.

7. The Seed-bud, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA Sebana _lutea_.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, exsertis, longissimis; corolla conica, lutea;
laciniis obtusis, erectis; floribus ternis, terminalibus, dependentibus;
calyx duplex, imbricatus; foliis ternis, confertissimis, reflexis,
arcuatis; caulis simplex, elongatus.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS erectus, bipedalis, laxus; rami pauci, ramulis brevissimis tecti.

FOLIA terna, linearia, arcuata; conferta, subtrigona, reflexa, apice
acuta, brevissime petiolata.

FLORES terni in apice ramulorum penduli; pedunculis brevissimis.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex, _exterius_ triphyllum, foliolis lato-ovatis,
membranaceis, adpressis, imbricatis; _interius_ tetraphyllum, foliolis
majoribus.

COROLLA conica, calyce duplo longior, lutea; laciniis limbi obtusis,
erectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, linearia, plana. Antheræ muticæ, exsertæ,
lineares, longissimæ, attenuata in filamenta.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovale, apice truncatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis,
exsertus, staminibus paulo longior. Stigma obsoletum, virescens.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Augusti, in Januarium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx.

2. Corolla.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a pistillo diducta.

5. Anthera una, lente aucta.

6. Pistillum, magnitudine naturali, Stigma dilatatum.

7. Germen, auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, without the blossom and very long; blossom
conical, and yellow; segments of the border upright; flowers grow by
threes, terminating the branches, hanging down; empalement double,
tiled; leaves grow by threes, very crowded, are bent back and crooked;
stem simple, lengthened out.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM upright, grows two feet high, and weak; larger branches few,
covered with numerous shorter ones.

LEAVES grow by threes, linear, curved, crowded, nearly three-sided,
reflexed, sharp-pointed, foot-stalks very short.

FLOWERS grow by threes hanging down at the end of the smaller branches;
foot-stalks very short.

EMPALEMENT. Cup double, _the outer_ three-leaved, leaflets broad,
egg-shaped, skinny, pressed to the inner, and tiled; _the inner_
four-leaved, with larger leaflets.

BLOSSOM conical, twice the length of the cup, yellow; the segments of
the border blunt and upright.

CHIVES. Eight linear threads, flat. Tips beardless, without the blossom,
linear, very long, tapered into the threads.

POINTAL. Seed-bud oval, appearing cut off at the end, furrowed. Shaft
thread-shaped, without the blossom, a little longer than the chives.
Summit obsolete, and greenish.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August, till January.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement.

2. The Blossom.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the pointal.

5. A Tip, magnified.

6. The Pointal of the natural size, the Summit larger.

7. The Seed-bud, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA Sebana, _viridis_.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, exertis, longissimis; corolla conica,
sub-viridis, laciniis obtusis, rectis; floribus ternis, terminalibus,
dependentibus; calyx duplex, imbricatus; foliis ternis, reflexis,
confertis, arcuatis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS robustus, erectus, pedalis; rami tecti ramulis brevissimis,
confertis.

FOLIA terna, linearia, arcuata, conferta, sub-trigona, reflexa, apice
acuta, brevissime petiolata.

FLORES terni, in apice ramulorum brevissimorum cernui.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex; exterius triphyllum, foliolis lato-ovatis,
membranaceis, adpressis, imbricatis; interius tetraphyllum, foliolis
majoribus.

COROLLA conica, calyce duplo longior, pallide-viridis; laciniis limbi
obtusis, rectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, linearia, plana; antheræ muticæ, exsertæ,
longissimæ, sub-rubræ.

PISTILLUM. Germen conicum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus, staminibus paulo
longior. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret in mense Aprilis.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Corolla.

4. Stamina et Pistillum.

5. Stamen unum auctum.

6. Pistillum lente auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, without the blossom, and very long; blossom
conical and greenish, having the segments of the mouth blunt, and
straight; the flowers grow by threes, at the end of the branches,
hanging down; cup double and tiled; the leaves grow by threes, are bent
backward, crowded together, and arched.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM sturdy, upright, and a foot high; the branches are covered with
very short lesser branches, crowded together.

LEAVES grow by threes, are linear, arched, crowded together, nearly
three-sided, reflexed, sharp-pointed, and on very short footstalks.

FLOWERS grow by threes, at the end of the shorter branches hanging down.

EMPALEMENT. Cup double; the outer three-leaved, the leaflets of a broad
egg-shape, skinny, pressed to the inner cup, and tiled; the inner
four-leaved, the leaflets larger.

BLOSSOM conical, twice the length of the cup, and pale green; the
segments of the border are blunt, and straight.

CHIVES. Eight linear, flat threads; tips beardless, without the blossom,
very long, and reddish.

POINTAL. Seed-bud conical. Shaft thread-shaped, without the blossom, and
something longer than the chives. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers in the month of April.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Blossom.

4. The Chives and Pointal.

5. A Chive magnified.

6. The Pointal magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA serratifolia.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis sub-exsertis, corollis sub-cylindricis,
luteo-aurantiis, sub-pollicaribus; foliis quaternis, rigidis, acutis,
serratis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS erectus, rigidus, pedalis, ramosus; ramuli frequentissimi,
breves.

FOLIA quaterna, rigida, serrata, acuta, nitida, trigona, patentia, apice
incurvata; petiolis brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES terminales, in apicibus ramulorum bini vel terni, sub-cernui;
pedunculi breves, bracteis tribus instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis lanceolatis, serratis,
reflexis.

COROLLA sub-pollicaria, sub-cylindrica, luteo-aurantia, apice paulo
contracta; oris laciniis reflexis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria; antheræ sub-exsertæ, muticæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen cylindricum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Augusti in Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, antherâ unâ lente auctâ.

5. Stylus et Stigma lente aucti.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips just out of the blossoms, which are nearly
cylindrical, of an orange yellow, almost an inch long; the leaves grow
by fours, are harsh, sharp, and sawed at the edges.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM upright, harsh, grows a foot high, and much branched; the smaller
branches are numerous, and short.

LEAVES grow by fours, are harsh, sawed, sharp, shining, three-sided, and
spreading, the point bent inwards; with very short floral leaves pressed
to the stem.

FLOWERS are terminal, two or three together at the end of the smaller
branches, bending a little downward; the footstalks are short, having
three floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved; the leaflets are spear-shaped, sawed, and
bent outward.

BLOSSOM near an inch long, almost cylindrical, orange yellow, a little
contracted at the top; the segments of the mouth are bent back.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads; tips nearly without the blossom, and
beardless.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel cylindrical. Shaft thread-shaped, and without the
blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August till December.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA setacea.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris basi bicornibus, inclusis; stylo longissimo, exserto;
floribus racemosis, terminalibus, ternis; corollis urceolatis, pallidis,
minutis; foliis ternis, hispidis; caulis flexilis, filiformis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS rami et ramuli filiformes, flexuosi, tenuissime scabri, villosi.

FOLIA terna, linearia, arcuata, obtusa, supra sub-scabrida, margine
setacea, revoluta; petioli brevissimi.

FLORES in ultimis ramulis terminates, sub-terni, spicati; pedunculi
longitudine florum, bracteis tribus, ad basin instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis, apice pilosis,
adpressis.

COROLLA urceolata, glabra, sub-albida, minuta; laciniæ limbi sub-erectæ,
obtusæ.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria. Antheræ inclusæ, ad basin bicornutæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen sub-globosum, sulcatum. Stylus exsertus, longissimus.
Stigma maximum, tetragonum, purpureum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi. Februarii, in Aprilem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium unum, lente auctum.

2. Calyx, et Corolla.

3. Calyx, auctus.

4. Stamina et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diducta.

6. Stamen unum, auctum.

7. Pistillum, lente auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with tips two-horned at the base, within the blossom, the shaft
very long and without; flowers grow in long bunches, terminating the
small branches by threes; blossoms pitcher-shaped, pale and small;
leaves grow by threes, with harsh hair on them; stem weak and
thread-shaped.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM larger and smaller branches are thread-shaped, grow zig-zag, are a
little rough and hairy.

LEAVES grow by threes, are linear, bowed, blunt, roughish on the upper
side, bristly and rolled back at the edge; the foot-stalks very short.

FLOWERS grow mostly by threes at the extremity of the smaller branches,
forming a spike; the foot-stalks the length of the flowers, having three
floral leaves at the base.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, leaflets egg-shaped, hairy at the end and
pressed to the blossoms.

BLOSSOM pitcher-shape, smooth, whitish and small; the segments of the
border are almost upright and blunt.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads. Tips within the blossom and two-horned
at the base.

POINTAL. Seed-bud nearly globular, and furrowed. Shaft without the
blossom, and very long. Summit very large, four-cornered, and purple.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from February till April.


REFERENCE.

1. A leaf, magnified.

2. The Empalement, and Blossom.

3. The Empalement, magnified.

4. The Chives, and Pointal.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal.

6. A Chive, magnified.

7. The Pointal, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA sordida.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, exsertis; corollis pilosis, curvis,
sordide-luteis; floribus terminalibus, sessilibus; folia quaterna,
linearia, pilis longis tecta.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, erectus, apice pilosus; rami sparsi, erecti; ramuli
frequentissimi, pilosi.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, pilosa, obtusa; petiolis brevissimis.

FLORES sessiles in omnibus ramulorum apicibus, solitarii, bini, vel
terni; pedunculi brevissimi, bracteis tribus, adpressis, instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis foliis similibus, adpressis.

COROLLA tubulosa-clavata, curvata, pollicaria, sordide-lutea, pilosa;
oris laciniis recurvatis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, apice incurvata. Antheræ muticæ,
exsertæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Augusti, in Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium, auctum.

2. Calyx, et Corolla.

3. Calyx, auctus.

4. Stamen et Pistillum, anthera una, aucta.

5. Stigma, auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, without the blossoms, which are hairy,
curved, and of a dirty yellow; flowers terminate the branches, sitting
close to the stem; leaves grow by fours, linear, and covered with long
hairs.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, upright, hairy at the top; branches scattered, upright;
smaller branches numerous, and hairy.

LEAVES grow by fours, linear, hairy and blunt; with very short
foot-stalks.

FLOWERS sit close upon the ends of the smaller branches, growing
solitary, or by twos, or threes; the foot-stalks are very short, having
three floral leaves pressed close to the cup.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, the leaflets like the other leaves, and
pressed to the blossom.

BLOSSOM tubularly club-shaped, curved, an inch long, of a dirty yellow
colour and hairy; the segments of the mouth rolled back.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, curved inwards at the points. Tips
beardless, and without the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped and
without the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from the month of August, till December.


REFERENCE.

1. A leaf, magnified.

2. The Empalement, and Blossom.

3. The Empalement, magnified.

4. The Chives and Pointal, a tip magnified.

5. The Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA spicata.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris aristatis, inclusis; floribus pluribus, dense spicatis,
subterminalibus; foliis subsenis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, pedalis, erectus, ramis pluribus, confertis,
adscendentibus.

FOLIA subsena, linearia, mucronata, patentia, glaberrima, subtus
sulcata, petiolis brevissimis, cauli adpressis.

FLORES plures, subterminales arcte stipati, in spicam duram; ima parte
luteoli, summa virescens.

CALYX. Perianthium persistens, duplex; _exterius_ polyphyllum, foliolis
lanceolatis, inæqualibus; _interius_ tetraphyllum, flavescens, foliolis
aduncis, spathulatis, summa inflata, callosa, acuminata, connivente.

COROLLA teretiuscula, basi attenuata, ore obtuso, quadrifido, æquali,
connivente.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, capillaria, corollæ subæqualia, receptaculo
inserta. Antheræ aristatæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum. Stylus filiformis, staminibus longior.
Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a Novembri in Aprilem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx et Bractea lente aucta.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with bearded tips, within the blossoms; which are numerous, on a
close spike, nearly terminating the branches; leaves growing mostly by
sixes.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, growing a foot high, upright, with numerous, crowded,
undivided, and ascending branches.

LEAVES growing mostly by sixes, sharp-pointed, spreading, and smooth,
channelled underneath, and pressed to the stem by short foot-stalks.

FLOWERS numerous, growing nearly at the end of branches, in hard
close-set spikes; the lower part of a light yellow, the extremity of a
light green.

EMPALEMENT. Cup permanent, double; the _outer_ many-leaved, unequal, and
spear-shaped; the _inner_ four-leaved, which are yellow, crooked, and
spatula-shaped; their upper part hard, inflated, sharp-pointed, and
tending to each other.

BLOSSOM somewhat cylindrical, with a tapered base; the mouth blunt, and
divided into a four-cleft, equal border, whose segments tend to each
other.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, nearly of a length with the blossom,
fixed into the receptacle. Tips bearded, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel roundish. Shaft thread-shaped, and longer than the
threads. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

In bloom from November till April.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement with the Blossom.

2. The Empalement and Floral-leaves magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA spuria.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; stylo exserto; corollis
sub-cylindricis, dilute purpureis; laciniis revolutis; floribus
terminalibus, sub-quaternis; foliis quaternis, sub-ciliatis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, pedalis, ramosus; ramuli numerosi, sub-erecti.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, sub-ciliata, subtus sulcata; petiolis
brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES in apicibus ramulorum sessiles, sub-quaterni; pedunculi
brevissimi, bracteis tribus minutis instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis subulatis, carinatis,
adpressis.

COROLLA sub-cylindrica, pollicaris, dilute purpurea; laciniis
sub-ovatis, acutis, revolutis; ore parum arctato.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, corollâ breviora; antheræ muticæ,
inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Aprili in Augustum.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossom; shaft without; blossoms
nearly cylindrical, of a light purple; segments of the border rolled
back; flowers terminate the smaller branches, mostly by fours; leaves
grow by fours, a little hairy at the edges.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows a foot high, and branching; the small branches are
numerous, and nearly upright.

LEAVES grow by fours, are linear, a little hairy, furrowed beneath; with
very short foot-stalks pressed to the branches.

FLOWERS grow at the end of the small branches, generally by fours, and
sitting close upon them; footstalks very short, having three very small
floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup of four leaves, which are awl-shaped, keeled, and
pressed to the blossom.

BLOSSOM nearly cylindrical, an inch long, and of a light purple;
segments of the border nearly egg-shaped, sharp-pointed, and rolled
back; the mouth a little narrowed.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, shorter than the blossom; tips
beardless, and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped, and
without the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from the month of April till August.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA taxifolia.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA antheris muticis, inclusis; floribus spicato-umbellatis,
terminalibus; corolla ventricosa, ore arctata, calyce colorato, fere
tecta, limbo patente; foliis rigidis, ternis, trigonis, mucronatis,
sexsariam imbricatis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, erectus, ramosissimus; rami et ramuli patento-erecti,
valde cicatrisati.

FOLIA terna, trigona, glabra, linearia, rigida, mucronata, sexsariam
imbricata; petiolis brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES in apicibus ramulorum umbellati, numerosi, erecti; pedunculi
colorati, longitudine corollarum; bracteæ duæ supra medium pedunculi,
tertia vero ad basin.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis ovatis, mucronatis, concavis,
membranaceis, coloratis, longitudine sere corollæ.

COROLLA ventricosa, ore arctata, carnea; laciniis patentibus,
mucronatis, semi ovatis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, capillaria, curvata. Antheræ muticæ, inclusæ,
flavæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum, sulcatum. Stylus inclusus, filiformis.
Stigma peltato-tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Augusti, in Novembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx, lente auctus.

3. Corolla.

4. Stamina, et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

6. Pistillum, auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH with beardless tips, within the blossom; the flowers terminate the
branches in umbels, forming a spike; blossom swelled at the base,
pinched in at the top, and almost covered by a coloured cup, with the
border spreading; leaves grow by threes, harsh, three-sided,
sharp-pointed, and tiled in six divisions round the stem.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, upright, very branching; the larger and smaller branches
grow spreading, and upright, and are very much notched.

LEAVES grow by threes, three-sided, smooth, linear, harsh,
sharp-pointed, and tiled in six divisions; with very short foot-stalks,
pressed to the branches.

FLOWERS grow at the ends of the small branches in umbels, numerous and
upright; foot-stalks coloured, the length of the blossoms; two floral
leaves upon the middle of the foot-stalk, and the third at its base.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, leaflets egg-shaped, pointed, concave,
skinny, and coloured, nearly the length of the blossom.

BLOSSOM swelled at the base, narrowed at the mouth, and flesh coloured;
segments spreading, pointed, and half egg-shaped.

CHIVES. Threads eight, hair-like, and curved. Tips beardless, within the
blossom, and yellow.

POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish, and furrowed. Shaft within the blossom, and
thread-shaped. Summit between shield and four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August till November.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Blossom.

4. The Chives, and Pointal.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one Tip magnified.

6. The Pointal, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA tubiflora.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, sub-exsertis, floribus sub-solitariis,
sessilibus, terminalibus; corollis clavato-cylindricis, curvatis,
pubescentibus; foliis quaternis, tenuibus, ciliatis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS flexibilis, erectus, superne tomentosus; rami sparsi, filiformes,
frequentes, villosi; ramuli frequentissimi brevissimi.

FOLIA quaterna, tenuia, obtusa, ciliata, subtus sulcata.

FLORES sessiles, in ramulis terminates, sub-solitarii, patenti, racemum
quasi formantes longum.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis spathulatis, ciliatis,
pedunculis fere nullis, bracteis tribus adpressis.

COROLLA clavata, curvata, villosa, carnea oris laciniis acutis,
reflexis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria. Antheræ muticæ, sub-exsertæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen pedicillatum, sub-globosum, profunde sulcatum. Stylus
filiformis, apice curvatus, exsertus. Stigma obsolete tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Aprili, in Julium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium, auctum.

2. Calyx.

3. Calyx, auctus.

4. Corolla.

5. Stamina, et Pistillum, anthera una lente aucta.

6. Pistillum.

7. Pistillum, auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossom; flowers grow mostly
singly at the end of the branches; blossoms between club and
cylindar-shaped, curved and downy; leaves grow by fours, thin and
fringed with hairs.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM flexible, upright, and downy at the upper part; branches scattered,
thread shaped, numerous and hairy, the smaller branches are very
numerous and very short.

LEAVES grow by fours, are thin, blunt, fringed with hair at the edges,
and furrowed beneath.

FLOWERS sit close upon the ends of the small branches, mostly solitary,
and spreading, appearing like a long bunch.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four leaves, leaflets spatula-shape and fringed, with
scarce any foot-stalks; three floral leaves pressed to the blossom.

BLOSSOM club-shaped, curved, hairy and flesh-coloured; the segments of
the border pointed, and reflexed.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads. Tips beardless, and just without the
blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud growing on a foot-stalk nearly globular, and deeply
furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped, curved at the end, and without the
blossom. Summit obscurely four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from April till July.


REFERENCE.

1. A Leaf, magnified.

2. The Empalement.

3. The Empalement, magnified.

4. The Blossom.

5. The Chives, and Pointal, one tip magnified.

6. The Pointal.

7. The Pointal, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA ventricosa.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris basi bicornibus inclusis; corollis oblongo-ovatis,
ventricosis, glabris; foliis quaternis ciliatis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, semipedalis, teres, crassiusculus, ramosissimus,
ramis recurvato-adscendentibus.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, acuta, basi recurvata, apice adscendentia,
ciliata, supra plana, subtus revoluta, nitida, petiolis brevissimis
adpressis.

FLORES terminales, plures, fastigiati, erecti; pedunculi purpurei, basi
instructa bracteis binis, parvis, oppositis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum foliolis erectis, carinatis, ciliatis.

COROLLA oblongo-ovata, apice arctata, limbo æquali, quadrilobo,
subreflexo, albo-purpurascens, glabra, nitida.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, corollæ subæqualia, receptaculo
inserta. Antheræ inclusæ, parvæ, bifidæ, basi bicornes.

PISTILLUM. Germen, oblongum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, filamentis
æqualis; stigma sub-tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Aprili ad Septembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx, et Bractea lente aucta.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with tips two-horned at their base, included within blossoms of
an oblong-ovate form, inflated and smooth; leaves ciliate, growing by
fours.


DESCRIPTION.

THE STEM shrubby, about half a foot high, cylindrical, thickish, very
much branched, the branches bend downward, then ascend.

LEAVES growing by fours, linear, pointed with a recurved base, and an
ascending point, ciliate, flat on their upper, and rolled back on their
under, surface, shining, the leaf-stems very short, and pressed to the
branches.

FLOWERS terminal, numerous, upright, level, and in bunches; the
footstalks purple, having two small opposite floral leaves at their
base.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, erect, keel-shaped, and ciliate.

BLOSSOM of an oblong-ovate form, narrowed toward the top, with a
slightly reflexed border, of a whitish purple, smooth, and shining.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, nearly of a length with the blossomed,
fixed into the receptacle. Tips within the blossom small, cleft, and
two-horned at their base.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel oblong and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped, of an
equal length with the threads. Summit nearly four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

In bloom from April till September.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement with the Blossom.

2. The Empalement and Floral-leaf magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal, one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA verticillata.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris aristatis, inclusis; corollis pollicaribus, cernuis,
ventricoso-cylindracis, saturate rubris, pedunculis longissimis; foliis
quaternis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS erectus, bipedalis, basi simplicissimus, rami verticillati,
subsimplices, erecto-patentes.

FOLIA quaterna, glabra, lineari, acuta, subtus sulcata, recta.

FLORES in apicibus ramorum verticillati, nutantes, conferti; pedunculi
longissimi, bracteis tribus ad basin instructi.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis lato-ovatis, acuminatis, apice
dilute rubris, basi viridis.

COROLLA ventricoso-cylindrica, pollicaris, ad basin-tetragona, profunde
costata; ore arctata, tenuissime laciniata; saturate rubentia.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria antheræ aristatæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen globosum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis longitudine
corollæ. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Julii, in Novembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx, lente auctus.

3. Stamina, et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta, anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with bearded tips, within the blossoms, which are an inch long,
hanging downward, of the shape of an inflated cylinder, deep red, and
very long foot-stalks; leaves growing by fours.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM upright, grows two feet high, simple at the bottom, the branches
growing in whorls, nearly simple, upright, and spreading.

LEAVES grow by fours, smooth, linear, sharp-pointed, furrowed on the
under part, and growing straight out from the stem.

FLOWERS grow in whorls, at the upper part of the branches, hanging
downward, and close together, with long foot-stalks, that have three
floral leaves just at their base.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are of a broad-oval shape,
sharp-pointed, the upper part of a light red, the bottom of a green
colour.

BLOSSOM is of a swelled-cylindrical shape, an inch long, four-cornered
at the base, and deeply ribbed; the mouth is narrowed, and very slightly
cut; of a deep red colour.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads; the tips are bearded, and within the
blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel round, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped, the
length of the blossom. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from July, till November.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Chives, and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft, and its Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA versicolor.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, subinclusis; stylo exserto; corollis
subcylindraceis, costatis, variè coloratis; foliis ternis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, bipedalis, erectus, attenuatus in apicem; ramis
simplicibus.

FOLIA terna, linearia, subulata, supra plana, subtus sulcata, glabra,
saturate viridia; petiolis brevissimis, adpressis.

FLORES plures, subcernui, tres quatuorve ramuli terminantes prope caulis
summitatem; pedunculi brevissimi.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex, _interius_ tetraphyllum, foliolis aurantiis,
apice sulcatis, adpressis; _exterius_ triphyllum, priori brevior, apice
virescens.

COROLLA subcylindracea, medio paulula arctata, costata, ima parte
aurantia, apice virescens; laciniis reflexis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, ima parte spathulata, summa linearia,
receptaculo inserta. Antheræ muticæ, subinclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen orbiculatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus.
Stigma tetragonum, virescens.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Octobris, in Aprilem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; et stamen unum lente auctum.

5. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH with beardless tips, just within the blossom, the pointal without;
the blossoms are nearly cylindrical, ribbed, and variously coloured;
leaves grow by threes.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows two feet high, erect, tapering to the top; the
branches are nearly simple.

LEAVES grow by threes, linear, awl-shaped, flat on the upper, and
furrowed on the under surface, smooth, and of a deep green; with very
short foot-stalks pressed to the branches.

The FLOWERS are numerous, bending a little downward, terminating the
small branches by threes or fours, near the top of the stem; the
foot-stalks being very short.

EMPALEMENT. The Cup is double, the _inner_ is four-leaved, which are
orange-coloured, furrowed at the point, and pressed to the blossom; the
_outer_ is three-leaved, shorter than the inner, and greenish at the
point.

The BLOSSOM is nearly cylindrical, a little narrowed at the middle,
ribbed, the lower part orange colour, the mouth greenish, whose segments
are reflexed.

CHIVES. Eight threads, whose lower parts are spatula-shaped, and upper
linear, fixed into the receptacle. Tips beardless, and almost within the
blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel globe-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped,
and without the blossom. Summit four-cornered and greenish.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from October, till April.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement, and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip with its thread,
magnified.

5. The Shaft, and its Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA vestita alba.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, sub-inclusis; folia sena, tremulenta, linearia,
conferta, attenuata in petiolos capillares; floribus clavatis, albidis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS tripedalis, laxus, erectus, basi simplicissimus, ramis
simplicibus adscendentibus.

FOLIA sena, conferta, glabra, linearia, tremulenta, subtus sulcata,
attenuata in petioles capillares semiunguiculares.

FLORES in ramulis verticillati, erecto-patentes; pedunculis brevibus
bracteis tribus instructis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis subulatis, adpressis, glabris,
viscosis.

COROLLA clavata, pollicaris, alba, pubescens; oris laciniis patentibus.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria; antheræ muticæ, subinclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, summum pilis longis coronatum. Stylus
filiformis, exsertus. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mense Julii in Decembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

5. Stylus et Stigma lente aucti.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, just within the blossoms; leaves grow by
sixes, are tremulous, linear, and crowded together, tapering into
hair-like foot-stalks; the flowers are club-shaped, and white.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM grows three feet high, loose and upright, simple at the base, with
simple ascending branches.

LEAVES grow by sixes, crowded together, smooth, linear, tremulous,
furrowed underneath, and tapering into hair-like foot-stalks a quarter
of an inch in length.

FLOWERS grow in whorls upon the smaller branches, upright, and
spreading; with short foot-stalks having three floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are awl-shaped, pressed to the
blossom, smooth, and clammy.

BLOSSOM club-shaped, an inch long, white and downy, the segments of the
mouth are spread outward.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, tips beardless, and just within the
blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel turban-shaped, the top-being crowned with long
hairs. Shaft thread-shaped, and without the blossom. Summit
four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from July till December.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA vestita purpurea.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, subexsertis; foliis senis, linearibus,
tremulentibus, attenuata in petiolos capillares, semiunguiculares;
floribus axillaribus, clavatis, purpureis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, bipedalis, erectus, basi simplicissimus, dein
verticillatim ramosus, ramis simplicibus, adscendentibus.

FOLIA sena, linearia, tremulanta, acuta, glabra, subtus leviter sulcata,
attenuata in petiolos capillares, semiunguiculares.

FLORES in ramulis mediis verticillati, recti; pedunculis brevibus,
bracteis tribus instructis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis lanciolatis, basi serratis,
viridis, glabris.

COROLLA clavata, pollicaria, obtusa, recta, purpurea, ore arctato, limbo
quadrifido, reflexo.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, capillaria, receptaculo inserta. Antheræ
muticæ, subexsertæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, apice, pilis longis, plumosis, octofarium
coronatum. Stylus filiformis, exsertus. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Julii in Januarium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Folium unum cum petiolo.

2. Calyx et Corolla.

3. Calyx lente auctus.

4. Stamina et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; anthera una lente aucta.

6. Stylus et Stigma lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, almost without the blossom; leaves grow by
sixes, linear, tremulous, and tapering into hair-like foot-stalks a
quarter of an inch long; the flowers grow from the base of the leaves,
are club-shaped, and purple.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows two feet high, and upright, simple at the base, then
branching out from a whorl into simple ascending branches.

LEAVES grow by sixes, are linear, tremulous, sharp-pointed, smooth,
lightly furrowed on the under part, and tapering into hair-like
leaf-stems a quarter of an inch in length.

FLOWERS are in whorls about the middle of the branches, straight out,
having short foot-stalks with three floral leaves.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are lance-shaped, sawed at the base,
green, and smooth.

BLOSSOM club-shaped, an inch long, blunt, straight, and purple,
compressed at the mouth, with a four-lobed, reflexed border.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads fixed into the receptacle. Tips
beardless, and nearly of a length with the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel turban-shaped, the top crowned by eight plumes of
long hairs. Shaft thread-shaped, and without the blossom. Summit
four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from July till January.


REFERENCE.

1. A leaf with its foot-stalk.

2. The Empalement and Blossom.

3. The Empalement magnified.

4. The Chives and Pointal.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

6. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA vestita coccinea.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, sub-exsertis; foliis senis, tremulis,
linearibus, attenuatis in petiolos capillares; corollis clavatis,
pollicaribus, coccineis.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS erectus, sesquipedalis, parum ramosus, ramulis simplicibus,
foliis tectis.

FOLIA sena, linearia, tremula, glabra, subtus sulcata, attenuata in
petiolos capillares semiunguiculares.

FLORES in ramulis mediis conferti, numerosi, erecto-patentes, pedunculis
brevibus, bracteis tribus linearibus adpressis.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, foliolis subulatis adpressis glabris.

COROLLA clavata, pollicaris, coccinea, oris laciniis revolutis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria, receptaculo inserta; antheris
muticis, sub-exsertis.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spæi.

Floret a mense Augusto in Novembrem.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx et Corolla.

2. Calyx lente auctus.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamina a Pistillo diducta; antherâ unâ lente auctâ.

5. Stylus et Stigma lente aucti.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips just without the blossom; the leaves grow by
sixes, are tremulous, linear, and taper into hair-like foot-stalks; the
blossoms are club-shaped, an inch long, and deep scarlet.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM upright, grows a foot and a half high, branching but little; the
smaller branches are simple, and covered with leaves.

LEAVES grow by sixes, are linear, tremulous, smooth, furrowed
underneath, and tapering into hair-like foot-stalks half an inch long.

FLOWERS are clustered together about the middle of the branches, are
numerous, spreading upwards, having short foot-stalks, with three linear
floral leaves pressed to the cup.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, which are awl-shaped, pressed to the
blossom, and smooth.

BLOSSOM club-shaped, an inch long, and of a deep scarlet colour; the
segments of the mouth are rolled back.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads, fixed into the receptacle; tips
beardless, and just without the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-vessel turban-shaped, and furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped.
Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from August till November.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chives detached from the Pointal; one tip magnified.

5. The Shaft and its Summit magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA viscaria.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, inclusis; corollis campanulatis, viscosis;
floribus axillaribus, spicatis; calycibus foliaceis, duplicatis; foliis
quaternis, linearibus, glabris.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, bipedalis, erectus; rami et ramuli simplices, longi,
laxi, superne viscosi.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, acuta, glabra, juniora in apicibus ramulis
viscosa; petiolis adpressis.

FLORES spicati in medio ramulorum, patentes, axillares; pedunculi
brevissimi.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex; foliolis rudibus, viscosis, adpressis,
marginibus glandulosis.

COROLLA campanulata, valde mucosa, purpurascens, semiquadrifida;
laciniis reflexis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo linearia. Antheræ muticæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen globosum. Stylus inclusus, filiformis. Stigma
tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Aprili, in Julium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx, et Corolla.

2. Calyx, auctus.

3. Corolla.

4. Stamina, et Pistillum.

5. Stamina a Pistillo diducta.

6. Stamen unum, auctum.

7. Stylus, et Stigma, lente aucta.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, within the blossoms, which are bell-shaped,
and clammy; the flowers grow from the foot-stalks of the leaves close to
the branches forming close spikes; the cups are like the leaves of the
plant, and are double; the leaves grow by fours, are linear and smooth.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, grows two feet high, and upright; the larger and smaller
branches are simple, long, loose and clammy at the ends.

LEAVES grow by fours, are linear, pointed, and smooth, the younger ones
are clammy at the ends of the branches; foot-stalks pressed to the stem.

FLOWERS grow in spikes about the middle of the branches, spreading out,
and growing from the foot-stalks of the leaves; the foot-stalks very
short.

EMPALEMENT. Cup double; the leaves unequal, clammy and pressed to the
blossom, with small glands on their margins.

BLOSSOM bell shaped, very clammy, purple, half way cleft into four, the
segments bent back.

CHIVES. Eight linear threads. Tips beardless and within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud globular. Shaft within the blossom and thread-shaped.
Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from April, till July.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement and Blossom.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Blossom.

4. The Chives, and Pointal.

5. The Chives detached from the Pointal.

6. A Chive, magnified.

7. The Shaft and Summit, magnified.

[Illustration]




ERICA Walkeria.


CHARACTER SPECIFICUS.

ERICA, antheris muticis, sub-inclusis, foliis quaternis, linearibus,
glabris; floribus sessilibus, erectis, quaternis, terminalibus; calycis
foliola margine membranacea, serrato-lacera.


DESCRIPTIO.

CAULIS fruticosus, spithamæus, erectus, ramosus; ramuli frequentissimi,
suberecti.

FOLIA quaterna, linearia, glabra, crassiuscula, nitida, patentia;
petiolis brevissimis.

FLORES sessiles, erecti, fastigiati, quaterni, terminales; fere
pedunculati.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex, exterius triphyllum, foliolis subulatis,
marginibus membranaceis, serrato-laceris; interius tetraphyllum,
foliolis longioribus, apicibus carneis, adpressis.

COROLLA ventricosa, pellucida, ore arctata, extus pallide sanguinea,
intus alba; laciniis sub-cordatis, expansis, maximis.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo capillaria; antheræ muticæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, læviter sulcatum. Stylus subexsertus,
filiformis. Stigma tetragonum.

Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

Floret a mensi Februarii in Junium.


REFERENTIA.

1. Calyx lente auctus.

2. Corolla.

3. Stamina et Pistillum.

4. Stamen unum lente auctum.

5. Pistillum lente auctum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

HEATH, with beardless tips, just within the blossom; leaves grow by
fours, linear, and smooth; flowers sit close upon the ends of the
branches, upright, and by fours; the leaves of the cup are skinny at the
edge, and sawed as if torn.


DESCRIPTION.

STEM shrubby, a span high, upright, and branching; smaller branches
numerous, and nearly upright.

LEAVES grow by fours, linear, smooth, thickish, shining, and spreading
out; with very short footstalks.

FLOWERS sit close in upright bunches, by fours, on the ends of the
branches; scarce any footstalks.

EMPALEMENT. Cup double, the outer three-leaved, which are awl-shaped,
having the edges skinny, and sawed as if torn; the inner has four
leaves, which are longer than the others; the points flesh-coloured, and
pressed to the blossom.

BLOSSOM bellied out, and pellucid, the mouth narrowed, without a pale
red, white within; the segments nearly heart-shaped, spreading, and very
large.

CHIVES. Eight hair-like threads; tips beardless, within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud turban-shaped, slightly furrowed. Shaft just without
the blossom, and thread-shaped. Summit four-cornered.

Native of the Cape of Good Hope.

Flowers from February till June.


REFERENCE.

1. The Empalement magnified.

2. The Blossom.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Chive magnified.

5. The Pointal magnified.

[Illustration]




ALPHABETICAL INDEX

TO THE

FIGURES IN VOL. I.


 1. Erica Aitonia.

 2. .... albens.

 3. .... ampullacea.

 4. .... baccans.

 5. .... Banksia.

 6. .... bruniades.

 7. .... caffra.

 8. .... calycina.

 9. .... campanulata.

10. .... capitata.

11. .... cerinthoides.

12. .... cernua.

13. .... coccinea.

14. .... conspicua.

15. .... coronata.

16. .... costata.

17. .... cruenta.

18. .... cubica.

19. .... curviflora.

20. .... discolor.

21. .... droseroides.

22. .... exsurgens.

23. .... flexuosa.

24. .... glauca.

25. .... glutinosa.

26. .... grandiflora.

27. .... imbricata.

28. .... incarnata.

29. .... jasminiflora.

30. .... lateralis.

31. .... Leea.

32. .... lutea.

33. .... mammosa.

34. .... marifolia.

35. .... margaritacea.

36. .... Massonia.

37. Erica melastoma.

38. .... monadelphia.

39. .... mucosa.

40. .... Muscaria.

41. .... nigrita.

42. .... obliqua.

43. .... Patersonia.

44. .... Petiveriana.

45. .... physodes.

46. .... pinea.

47. .... β Plukenetia _nana_.

48. .... pubescens.

49. .... pulchella.

50. .... purpurea.

51. .... pyramidalis.

52. .... radiata.

53. .... ramentacea.

54. .... retorta.

55. .... Sebana _aurantia_.

56. .... β .... _lutea_.

57. .... γ ...... _viridis_.

58. .... serratifolia.

59. .... setacea.

60. .... sordida.

61. .... spicata.

62. .... spuria.

63. .... taxifolia.

64. .... tubiflora.

65. .... ventricosa.

66. .... verticillata.

67. .... versicolor.

68. .... vestita _alba_.

69. ... β ..... _purpurea_.

70. ... γ ..... _coccinea_.

71. .... viscaria.

72. .... Walkeria.




SYSTEMATICAL ARRANGEMENT

OF THE

LXXII ERICAS, OR HEATHS, CONTAINED IN

VOL. I.


Taken from the shape of the tips, and the number of leaves which
surround the stem in one whorle


  ANTHERÆ ARISTATÆ.           TIPS BEARDED.

   _Foliis ternis._         _Leaves by threes._

E. marifolia              Marum-leaved, H.
.. pulchella              Whipcord-like.
.. discolor               Two-coloured.


 _Foliis quaternis._        _Leaves by fours._

.. caffra                 Caffrean.
.. pubescens              Downy.
.. mucosa                 Mucous-flowered.
.. verticillata           Whorled-flowered.
.. mammosa                Teat-like-flowered.
.. cruenta                Bloody.
.. Patersonia             Paterson.


   _Foliis senis._         _Leaves by sixes._

.. spicata                Spike-flowered.


 _Foliis octonis._         _Leaves by eights._

.. coronata               coronet-flowered.


   ANTHERÆ CRISTATÆ.          TIPS CRESTED.

   _Foliis sparsis._        _Leaves scattered._

.. droseroides            Sun-dew-leaved.


   _Foliis ternis._         _Leaves by threes._

.. calycina               Large-cupped.
.. glauca                 Sea-green.


  _Foliis quaternis._       _Leaves by fours._

.. ramentacea             Slender-branched.
.. margaritacea           Pearl-flowered.
.. lateralis              Lateral-flowered.
.. incarnata              Flesh-coloured.
.. cernua                 Nodding-flowered.
.. baccans                Arbutus-flowered.
.. physodes               Bead-flowered.


  ANTHERÆ BICORNUTÆ.       TIPS TWO-HORNED.

  _Foliis sparsis._         _Leaves scattered._

.. obliqua                Irregular-leaved.


   _Foliis ternis._         _Leaves by threes._

.. setacea                Bristly-leaved.
.. Aitonia                Aiton.
.. jasminiflora           Jasmine-flowered.


 _Foliis quaternis._       _Leaves by fours._

.. cubica                 Square-flowered.
.. ventricosa             Bellied.
.. ampullacea             Flask.
.. conspicua              Long-yellow-flowered.


  ANTHERÆ MUTICÆ.           TIPS BEARDLESS.

 _Foliis oppositis._       _Leaves opposite._

E. lutea                  Small yellow, H.


  _Foliis ternis._        _Leaves by threes._

.. nigrita                Black-tipped.
.. flexuosa               Zig-Zag-branched.
.. imbricata              Tiled-cup.
.. taxifolia              Yew-leaved.
.. albens                 Whitish-flowered.
.. bruniades              Brunia-like-flowered.
.. capitata               Woolly-headed.
.. versicolor             Various-coloured.
.. costata                Ribbed-flowered.


   _Foliis quaternis._      _Leaves by fours._

.. Muscaria               Musk-Hyacinth-smelling.
.. Walkeria               Walker.
.. viscaria               Viscous.
.. campanulata            Bell-flowered.
.. pyramidalis            Pyramidal.
.. radiata                Raied-flowered.
.. retorta                Filligrane-leaved.
.. serratifolia           Sawed-leaved.
.. coccinea               Deep-red-flowered.
.. cerinthoides           Honey-wort-flowered.
.. Massonia               Masson.
.. tubiflora              Tube-flowered.
.. curviflora             Curve-flowered.
.. spuria                 Rolling-pin-flowered.
.. sordida                Dirty-flowered.
.. grandiflora            Large-flowered.
.. exsurgens              Ever-flowering.


 _Foliis scenis._          _Leaves by sixes._

.. purpurea               Purple-flowered.
.. Leea                   Lee.
.. glutinosa              Clammy.
.. pinea                  Pine-leaved.
.. vestita _alba_         White tremulous.
 β ..... _purpurea_       Purple tremulous.
 γ ..... _coccinea_       Scarlet tremulous.


  ANTHERÆ PENICILLATÆ.      TIPS PENCILLED.

   _Foliis ternis._        _Leaves by threes._

.. Monadelphia            Columnar-threaded.
.. Banksia                Banks.
 β Plukenetia, _nana_   β Plunkenet, _dwarf_.
.. melastoma              Black-mouthed.
.. Petiveriana            Petiver-like.
.. Sebana, _aurantia_   α Seba, _orange_.
 β ....., _lutea_       β ..., _yellow_.
 γ ....., _viridis_     γ ..., _green_.




GENERAL LIST OF HEATHS

CULTIVATED BY

_Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, in 1802_.


       ERICA.                   | 1 | 2 | 3 ||

  1. absynthoides               | g | r | p ||
  2. Aitonia                    | d |l,b| s ||
  3. albens                     | g |s,b| p ||
  4. ampullacea                 | d |l,b| s ||
  5. arborea                    | m | r | l ||
  6. β ... squarrosa            | m | r | l ||
  7. γ ... ramosa               | m | r | l ||
  8. Archeria                   | d | l | s ||
  9. arctata                    | g | r | l ||
 10. articularis                | g | r | l ||
 11. assurgens                  | g | r | p ||
 12. aulacea                    | g | r | p ||
 13. australis                  | m | r | l ||
 14. axillaris                  | g | r | p ||
 15. baccans                    | g | r | p ||
 16. Banksia                    | g | l |p,l||
 17. β ... purpurea             | g | l |p,l||
 18. Blæria                     | g | r | p ||
 19. β ... rubra                | g | r | p ||
 20. bracteata                  | g | r | p ||
 21. bruniades                  | g | r | p ||
 22. caffra                     | g | r | l ||
 23. calycina                   | g | r | s ||
 24. campanulata                | g | r | p ||
 25. canescens                  | d | r | l ||
 26. capitata                   | g | r | p ||
 27. β ... minor                | g | r | p ||
 28. carinata                   | d | b | s ||
 29. carnea                     | h | r | p ||
 30. cerinthoides               | g | l | p ||
 31. β ... elatiora             | g | l | p ||
 32. cernua                     | d | r |l,p||
 33. ciliaris                   | m | r | p ||
 34. cinerea                    | h | r | p ||
 35. β ... alba                 | h | r | p ||
 36. coccinea                   | g | l | l ||
 37. comosa                     | g |s,b| p ||
 38. β ... alba                 | g |s,b| p ||
 39. concolor                   | g | l | l ||
 40. concinna                   | g | l | l ||
 41. conspicua                  | g | l | l ||
 42. coronata                   | d | l | s ||
 43. corifolia                  | g | r | p ||
 44. costata                    | g | l |l,p||
 45. corymbosa                  | g | r | p ||
 46. cruenta                    | g | l | p ||
 47. β ... nana                 | g | l | p ||
 48. cubica                     | d | r | s ||
 49. cupressoides               | d | l | s ||
 50. curviflora                 | g | l | p ||
 51. Dabœcii                    | h | r | p ||
 52. daphneflora                | g |s,b| l ||
 53. β ... alba                 | g |s,b| l ||
 54. declinata                  | g | r | p ||
 55. denticulata                | g |s,b| l ||
 56. densifolia                 | g | l | p ||
 57. depressa                   | g | l | p ||
 58. discolor                   | g | l | l ||
 59. divaricata                 | g | r | p ||
 60. droseroides                | d |s,b|l,p||
 61. elata                      | g | l | p ||
 62. elongata                   | g | l | p ||
 63. empetrifolia               | g | r |l,p||
 64. empetroides                | g | r |l,p||
 65. β ... alba                 | g | r |l,p||
 66. enneaphylla                | d | l | s ||
 67. erecta                     | g | l | p ||
 68. exsurgens                  | d | l | l ||
 69. β ... lutea                | d | l | l ||
 70. expansa                    | g | r |l,p||
 71. fastigiata                 | g |s,b| p ||
 72. flammea                    | d | l | p ||
 73. flexuosa                   | g | r | p ||
 74. florida                    | g | r | p ||
 75. florabunda                 | g | r | l ||
 76. foliosa                    | g | l | l ||
 77. formosa                    | d | l | l ||
 78. fucata                     | m | r | p ||
 79. fulva                      | g | l | l ||
 80. gelida                     | g | l | l ||
 81. glauca                     | d |s,b| s ||
 82. glomerata                  | g | r | p ||
 83. glutinosa                  | d | l | s ||
 84. grandiflora                | g | l | p ||
 85. halicacaba                 | g |l,b|l,p||
 86. hirta                      | g | r | p ||
 87. hispida                    | g | r | p ||
 88. hybrida                    | g | l | p ||
 89. ignescens                  | g | l | p ||
 90. imbricata                  | g | r | l ||
 91. imbecilla                  | g | r | p ||
 92. β ... stricta              | m | r | p ||
 93. incarnata                  | g | r | p ||
 94. inaperta                   | d | l | l ||
 95. incana                     | d | r | s ||
 96. inflata                    | d |l,b| s ||
 97. jasminiflora               | d |l,b| s ||
 98. lachnœa                    | d | r | s ||
 99. lateralis                  | g | r | p ||
100. lævis                      | g | r | p ||
101. β ... alba                 | g | r | p ||
102. Leea                       | d | l | l ||
103. leucanthera                | g | r | l ||
104. Linnæa                     | g | l | p ||
105. β ... incarnata            | g | l | p ||
106. lutea                      | g |s,b| s ||
107. β ... palida               | g |s,b| s ||
108. magnifica                  | d |l,b| s ||
109. mammosa                    | g | l | p ||
110. β ... minor                | g | l | p ||
111. γ ... tardiva              | g | l | p ||
112. margaritacea               | g | r | p ||
113. marifolia                  | g | r |p,l||
114. Massonia                   | d | l | s ||
115. γ Massonia grossa d        | l | s | s ||
116. mediterranea               | m | r | p ||
117. melastoma                  | g | l | l ||
118. mellifera                  | g | r | p ||
119. micranthos                 | g | r | p ||
120. minima                     | g | r | p ||
121. molissima                  | g | l | p ||
122. monadelphia                | g | l | s ||
123. Monsoniana                 | g | l | p ||
124. mucosa                     | g | r | l ||
125. multiflora                 | m | r | p ||
126. Muscaria                   | g |s,b|p,l||
127. nigrita                    | g | r |p,l||
128. Nivenia                    | d |s,b| s ||
129. nudiflora                  | d | r | s ||
130. obbata                     | d |l,b| s ||
131. obcordata                  | g | r |p,l||
132. obliqua                    | d | r | s ||
133. paniculata                 | d | r | p ||
134. parviflora                 | g | r | p ||
135. Patersonia                 | g | l |p,l||
136. β ... coccinea             | g | l |p,l||
137. patens                     | g | r | p ||
138. pedunculata                | g | r | l ||
139. pendula                    | g | r | p ||
140. penicillata                | g | l | s ||
141. β ... alba                 | g | l | s ||
142. persoluta                  | g | r | p ||
143. β ... alba                 | g | r | p ||
144. γ ... conferta             | g | r | p ||
145. perspicua                  | g | l | p ||
146. Petiveria                  | g | l | l ||
147. petiveriana                | g | l | l ||
148. β ... aurantia             | g | l | l ||
149. petiolata                  | g | r |p,l||
150. phylicoides                | g | r | p ||
151. physodes                   | g | r | s ||
152. β ... minor                | g | r | s ||
153. pilosa                     | g | r | p ||
154. pilulifera                 | g | r | p ||
155. pinea                      | g | l | l ||
156. pinifolia                  | g | l | l ||
157. pinastri                   | g | l | l ||
158. planifolia                 | g | r | p ||
159. plumosa                    | g | r |s,p||
160. Plukenetii                 | g | l | s ||
161. β ... nana                 | g | l | s ||
162. pregnans                   | g |l,b|s,l||
163. pubescens                  | g | r | p ||
164. β ... minor                | g | r | p ||
165. γ ... minima               | g | r | p ||
166. pulchella                  | g | r |p,l||
167. purpurea                   | d | l | l ||
168. pyramidalis                | d | r | p ||
169. pyrolæflora                | g | r | p ||
170. quadriflora                | d | r | p ||
171. quadrata                   | g | r | l ||
172. radiata                    | d | l | s ||
173. β ... laxa                 | d | l | s ||
174. ramentacea                 | g | r | p ||
175. regerminans                | g | r | p ||
176. retorta                    | d |l,b| s ||
177. β ... minor                | d |l,b| s ||
178. rigida                     | g | r | s ||
179. rosea                      | d | l | l ||
180. rubens                     | g | r | p ||
181. sambucæflora               | g | l | p ||
182. scoparia                   | m | r | p ||
183. Sebana aurantia            | g | l |l,p||
184. β ... lutea                | g | l |l,p||
185. γ ... viridis              | g | l |l,p||
186. δ ... fusca                | g | l |l,p||
187. serratifolia               | d | l | l ||
188. sessiliflora               | g | l | s ||
189. setacea                    | g | r | p ||
190. sexfaria                   | d | r | s ||
191. simpliciflora              | d | l | p ||
192. sordida                    | g | l | p ||
193. spicata                    | g | l | l ||
194. spumosa                    | g | r | p ||
195. spuria                     | g | l | p ||
196. stricta                    | m | r | p ||
197. taxifolia                  | d |s,b| l ||
198. tenella                    | d |s,b| p ||
199. tetragona                  | g | r |l,p||
200. Tetralix                   | h | r | p ||
201. β ... alba                 | h | r | p ||
202. thymifolia                 | d | r | p ||
203. triflora                   | g | r | p ||
204. β ... rubra                | g | r | p ||
205. tubiflora                  | g | l | p ||
206. β ... fissa                | g | l | p ||
207. vagans                     | h | r | p ||
208. β ... alba                 | h | r | p ||
209. ventricosa                 | g |l,b|l,p||
210. versicolor                 | g | l |l,p||
211. verticillata               | g | l |l,p||
212. β ... tenuiora             | g | l |l,p||
213. vestita alba               | d | l | s ||
214. β ... purpurea             | d | l | s ||
215. β ... coccinea             | d | l | s ||
216. δ ... incarnata            | d | l | s ||
217. virgata                    | g | r | p ||
218. viridi-purpurea            | m | r | p ||
219. viscaria                   | g | r |l,p||
220. β ... stricta              | g | r |l,p||
221. vulgaris                   | h | r | p ||
222. β ... alba                 | h | r | p ||
223. γ ... plena                | h | r | p ||
224. Uhria                      | g | l |l,p||
225. umbellata                  | m | r | p ||
226. γ ... alba                 | m | r | p ||
227. urceolaris                 | g | r |l,p||
228. Walkeria                   | g |s,b|l,p||


_Explanation of the Letters in the three Columns marked 1, 2, 3._

     Col. 1st indicates their proper situation in winter, given for the
     vicinity of the Metropolis: d, dry-stove, or good airy greenhouse;
     g, greenhouse; m, half-hardy, and h, hardy. Col. 2d points at the
     shape of the blossom; by l, is designed long; r, round, or
     approaching; l,b and s,b, long or short, and bellied. Col. 3d shews
     by the letters l,p, and s, whether loam, peat, or sand, or what
     mixture of them, is the soil most proper for the propagation, of
     each.
